One Fish, Two Fish, Blowfish, No Fish
J. Tynan Burke


On Tuesday, just before noon, the last fish was caught. It was a mahi-mahi. It was unceremoniously thrown off the gaffe and onto the deck of the boat, where it was unceremoniously beaten to death with an unremarkable baton and then cleaned with a machete. The fisherman hosed it down afterwards, and the bloody water poured out of the scuppers and into the sea. It was, he would later report, delicious.
Nobody learned a valuable lesson about overfishing or climate change, because this didn't have anything to do with overfishing or climate change, at least as far as anybody could tell. Nor did anybody have a sudden epiphany about coral bleaching, or choose to devote their lives to reversing ocean acidification. There were no additional consciousness-raising efforts among schoolchildren to encourage them to grow up and become better stewards of the planet than their teachers had been.
No, none of this happened, because on Tuesday, every living fish on the planet simply disappeared. Poof. Gone.
The ecological and cultural devastation would, of course, bring the people of earth to their knees, though if pressed to talk about it pretty much everybody would start with the tsunamis.

*	*	*

James F.X. “Nuts” Adams sat on the pier waiting for the trawler to come in from the river. He was an eeler, like his father before him and etc., and according to the bloody chore wheel back at the eelhouse, it was his turn to lead the eel-cleaning crew. As a result, in a coincidence he would later call 'lucky' once you got a few whiskeys in him, he wasn't on the boat when the Thames first hiccuped. It boiled as the water level seemed to go up and down in patches and waves. The trawler, barely suited to handle a rainstorm, stayed upright for an admirable amount of time before capsizing.
Nuts began to strip out of his shoes and take off his baggy peacoat, ready to swim in and help, but the surf—such an odd word to apply to a riverbank, he considered—kept worsening until it was, to his eyes, a fool's errand to attempt a rescue. Holding his shoes in one hand, he slowly stepped backwards down the pier towards the land, eyes riveted to the scene unfolding. Eventually the boat would run aground on a sandbank, but in the meantime the growing waves increasingly seemed to swallow it. He saw a solitary figure swimming to shore—Kate, going by the red hair. She looked to be pulling somebody along with her. That would be two out of a crew of five, James thought, a bit too shocked to be sad just yet.
What in the hell happened?
As the surf got rougher and rougher, Nuts froze. Turning around and running up the hill to the eelhouse wouldn't make you a bad person, would it? There was no telling what might happen next, after all. But in the end altruism (and, to be honest, no small amount of affection) prevailed, and he tossed his shoes and coat to the ground. The churning waves sloshed over the pier, making it slimy with silt and detritus under his bare feet as he ran to help.

*	*	*

Nuts, Kate, and a recently revived Blake sat around a fire in the eelhouse, the air thick with the smell of, well, eel. Frozen eel, dried eel, eel guts that by rights should have been taken out back a few hours ago, and the unmistakable, mouth-watering scent of eel pies baking in the oven. Empty fish tanks adorned the walls.
Kate had told the story while she downed a few brandy's. There were eels, then there weren't eels. One second they had a few hooked, the next the lines had gone slack, and then the Thames, for lack of a better word, exploded. She didn't know what had happened to the rest of the crew, though she did see Jones get a knock on the head when the boat went over.
“So,” Kate said, sipping from a mason jar, “that's that then. Don't know what happened to the other two lads.”
“Tories, weren't they?” Nuts said.
“Mm.”
“Fuck it then, I'm not jumping in there for them.”
For his part, Nuts was on his second Jameson.
 

*	*	*

In the laid-back California town of sunny San Rafael, there lived a woman named Pearly Sweetcake, whose parents had a rotten sense of humor. She was at work during the as-yet unnamed incident, acting in her capacity as a researcher for the Marine Intelligence Research Center, and was an expert in cetacean cognition. She did not in fact see it occur, per se, as she was at the computer at the time, though the people minding the tanks reported a sort of disapparation effect, a sort of sudden pop! concurrent with a sort of sudden...
Nobody had quite put words to it. Nonexistence? Not-being-there-any-more-ness? The best anybody could come up with was “like from Harry Potter, you know?”
Now, memory is a fuzzy thing, and the fact that the greatest natural disaster the human world had yet seen was right on the heels of the actual disappearance didn't help people's recollection. There was footage, and endless media dissection, but the simple fact seemed to be: there were fish here, then there weren't. Whether it was more of a pop or a pip or, indeed, some sort of whooshing sound—a theory promulgated by fans of the late Richard Brautigan--was immaterial for most people, including Pearly Sweetcake.
Her cell phone rang. Mom. “Hi, mom... yes, I'm fine, mom... no, our fish all disappeared too, mom... calm down, mom, Frankie was just a goldfish after all... look, I really need to figure out what to do with the dolphins, can we talk later?... Dolphins aren't fish, mom... no, really, you can look it up. They're mammals, everybody knows... sorry, mom... goodbye, mom.”
Moms, am I right?
She clichédly buried her face in her hands, blonde hair flopping down. San Rafael is relatively inland, so they hadn't had any direct disasters, not like San Francisco or Los Angeles, so her mind was pretty much still at work. What a clusterfuck, she thought. And that old shark was just one day from retirement. She allowed herself a chuckle. If you can't be silly even in your darkest hour, you probably shouldn't be a scientist.
And a dark hour it was: they were out of dolphin food.
Now, as even an illiterate sixth-grader knows, dolphins eat--in addition to fish--squid and krill, but the Institute hadn't had the foresight to predict... whatever it was that happened, so they hadn't stocked up on squid or krill. Not even shrimp! In the world of marine biology, even an idiot keeps frozen shrimp lying around for emergencies.
And even if the seafood stores hadn't collapsed... well, Pearly was just assuming they had. But it wasn't like dead fish were really load-bearing structural elements. The damage had been the water displacement, but something sitting in a fridge...
She grabbed a shopping bag and started to head out of her office. She paused and considered.
You're going to need a bigger bag, Pearly.
Fifteen minutes later, she was at Western Boat & Tackle with a pickup truck and four crates of ice.
She was not alone.


–---------------

Eel Pie Island was a scummy little rock in the middle of the Thames in Southwest London. It was historically known for its eel pie, which is exactly what it sounds like. I suppose that shouldn't be surprising. 
More recently, after a slump in the popularity of eel pies caused by the arrival in England of food that was not designed by the English, the island had come to be populated by the sort of people who populate run-down former commerce centers. You know, hipsters. It was not exactly a sought-after address, though if Cornelius Finch had anything to say about it, some day he'd be able to say he'd lived there before it was cool. (With a name like that, he would be the envy of any Brooklynite, but you have to remember this is England we're talking about.)
He was tuning his zither (he had a zither) on our fateful day, while the weather outside had a delightful time raising the sun to its pinnacle (for London values of 'pinnacle') in the sky (for London values of 'sky'), which is to say that the gray got a little lighter. And then, of course, the excrement hit the air conditioning.
Cornelius Finch heard something of a bubbling sound, a bit far away. He didn't think much of it, not that it was making tuning the zither any easier. (Incidentally, he'd considered naming his band “Tuning the Zither” but the singer had vetoed it.) So on he tuned. These things have a lot of strings, you know.
There was some muffled screaming and something that might have been a boat catching fire, which he further disregarded. The zither must be tuned.
A few hours later, after the zither was thoroughly tuned and he'd recorded a couple of tracks, he got a telephone call. It was from Nuts.
“Hello?” he said.
“Hey Corny, wanna come over and have the last eel pie with me?”
“Can't you make more?”
“You don't have a TV, radio, or the Internet, do you.”
“No, of course not.”
“Right. So.... like, last eel pie.”
“Er... last?”
“Right. About that...”

And so he did.


–--------------------

Sushi preparation is an exacting art. Let's start with the rice, from which sushi derives its name. Japan's finest chefs often cut their teeth in the industry by learning how to cook the rice as an apprentice, sometimes for years. It is this rice which literally underlies many forms of sushi. The rice is very important. The rice is step one.
From there, apprentice chefs sometimes move on to learning how to make what goes on top of the rice, often tamago, which is a kind of sweet omelet. Others move straight on to fish, but the finest chefs must toil over a hot stove making tamago before they are allowed to proceed. 
At this point, sometimes years into the process, your apprentice chef knows how to make rice and how to make eggs. The next step is shaping the rice, cutting the eggs, putting the eggs on top of the rice, and displaying it in an aesthetically pleasing manner. This is the beginning of the knife-work training. Once you understand the intricacies of cutting omelet after omelet into just the right shapes, then you move on to fish.
And fish is complicated. Each variety has its own unique texture. That texture must be sculpted into culinary art from the slab of meat you are handed. Different parts of the same tuna must be cut differently; an o-toro cut as a chu-toro is wrong, and these meats can exist within inches of one another on the same fish's belly. At this point, the chef knows the ins and outs of all the species consumed as sushi, as well as how to cut them up accurately, quickly, and beautifully. 
Then they usually start (or at least work at) a restaurant, where they spend the rest of their natural lives making sushi. The Japanese ethos when it comes to life-long employment is rather interesting.
Oh, remember to read all that in the past tense.
–--
Jiro Watanabe was one such chef. Renowned in Kyoto, the wait-list for his restaurant could stretch into the weeks or sometimes even months. On this particular Tuesday, he was at a fish market in Hirakata, examining the day's catch. He picked out a tuna, got five pounds of octopus, some giant clams, filled up the tank he had with him with sea urchins, bought some assorted roe, fresh seaweed, and so on. He was inspecting live eels, about to say “I'll have that one and that one and--,” when the eels just blinked out of existence, like Howl's castle had teleported them somewhere. The water in the tank sloshed around a little. The tilapia tanks at the far end of the warehouse fared far worse, spilling out water onto the floor, and one of them cracked and then burst. 
He decided that discretion was the better part of valor. Sometimes, to flee was to win. So he paid for everything, and methodically carried his purchases onto a wheeled cart. There was a vague rumbling, so he decided to borrow two employees to help with the tuna and load it all into his van. He gave them each a 500 yen note, got into the right front seat, and drove like hell back to his restaurant.


–--------------
Pearly got out of the truck and elbowed her way through the crowd and into Western Boat & Tackle, which was where you went when you needed what most people would think of as 'bait' but Pearly knew as 'dolphin food'. You could also get boats there, of course, as the name suggested. 
The water in the nearby canal sloshed back and forth.
The inside was a mess. Not because it had taken any damage. The inside was always a mess. We're talking about a shop run by fishermen. Hell, the outside somehow managed to be a mess--the sign, degraded by the salt in the air, the siding as well for that matter, not repainted for many years; grubby windows; potholes in the parking lot—and they weren't even in charge of the parking lot, it was like the overall sense of decline was contagious. As for the inside, the novelty keychain rack was rusty, the newsrack slightly askew, and shop tools lay about mixed with the ones for sale, set down wherever they were last used, distinguishable only by their degree of wear and possibly the direction they were facing.
Garth Brooks played in the background. And the thunder rolls, and the lightning strikes...
Pearly had figured a bait shop would not exactly be the #1 destination on an afternoon where there were no fish to be caught, but she was evidently wrong. Nobody seemed to be shopping, and they all looked a bit... blue collar, to put it nicely, so perhaps they were fishermen with nowhere else to go right now who had sort of wandered over, like it was the local bar and they had all just gotten fired.
(The local bar was actually the 4th Street Tavern. They would be there later. It was two in the afternoon, for crying out loud.)
“Yo! Jay!” she called out over the din. A fellow who looked like a fisherman but somehow didn't have a tan looked over.
“Pearly B, I was wondering if we'd see you,” he shouted.
The crowd parted a bit, perhaps sensing the connection, and Pearly approached the counter.
“Must be a hell of a day for you,” he said.
“You and me both,” she said.
“I'll bet. I can't seem to get rid of these guys,” he said, indicating the crowd with his chin. “Not that I want to. The company is nice.”
“Company's always nice. Hey, look, Jay, my dolphins are hungry.”
“Oh, shit. They eat fish, right?”
“Yeah.”
“So what do you need from me? Besides a miracle.”
“Squid. Lots of squid. And shrimp if you've got 'em, and I know this is kind of a long-shot, but krill.”
His eyebrow lifted. “When you say 'lots'...”
“I have a pickup truck with four crates of ice in the bed.”
“...you mean 'lots'. The Institute good for it?”
Pearly chuckled. “The Institute is funded from up on high by the prince of darkness. We're good for it.” She handed him an American Express black card.
“I'm sorry, we don't take AmEx,” he said automatically.
She handed him a Visa black card.
His eyes widened a touch. “Now that we take. Pull up around back and we can start loading the truck. The gate code is 24601.”
“Really?”
“What can I say, I like Les Miz.”

–--------------------

Eel Pie Island did not have cable. Nobody was willing to run a line into the middle of the Thames for a price you could afford on an eeler's salary. This was not the worst thing in the world, however; they always had the BBC. And so Cornelius Finch sat at the table in the cozy eelhouse with Nuts, listening to the radio. Kate and Blake were napping in the back.

“As the death toll continues to rise in Malaysia, elite concerns are turning to the larger question of the global food supply, particularly in East Asia...”

A fresh eel pie sat on the table next to the radio, steaming. There was about a third missing from the pan, having been placed on plates in front of Cornelius and Nuts. They were eating them with care, considering every bite carefully. They examined the mouthfeel and pondered the intermingling flavors, the way the flakiness of a properly-baked eel interacted with the flakiness of a properly-baked crust.

“Ve haff no real idea vhat has happened, just zat zer vere fish, und zen... zer vere not fish. Zer are some clues, und our top scientists are of course vorking on ze issue as a top priority, our engineers designing methods zu, ah, shore up ze Rhine in ze case of a similar attack—”
“Assuming, of course, Minister Erdschoss, that this was indeed an attack of some kind.”
“Ja, ja. Eizher vay, should it happen again—some sort of wasser-based... anomaly—zen ve must be prepared, ja? Ze damage vas not just caused by ze fish, ah, disappearing, being moved, und so weiter, na ja? Zhat vould not cause zhese waves.”
“This is the first I've heard of that, Minister.”
“Vell, zis is only a few hours old, ja? Ve must update our knowledge as new things, ah, come to light.”
“And what sort of things would that be, Minister?”
“I am afraid zat I cannot share zat vith you at zis time.”
“Well thank you for your time. That was German Federal Minister of Education and Research, Dr. Johannes Erdschoss. For the BBC, Berlin bureau, I'm...”

“Good pie,” Cornelius said.
“Thanks,” Nuts said.
They each took another bite.
“Shame about the fish,” Cornelius said.
Nuts swallowed. “Er, thanks, I think.”
“So now what?”
Nuts just shook his head and took another bite.

“You've got to strike while the iron is hot, you know, bleep or get off the pot—”
“May I remind you, Mr. Vartanian, that we are on a live program, and our ten-second delay is now down to... engineering says four seconds.”
“Sorry, sorry. Anyway, look, I didn't get to be where I am by not doing stupid bleep—”
“Sir!”
“—and frankly, money is for spending. So I'm going to spend some. Lord knows I've got enough. Heh.”
“You don't think—so some people have said it's a little insensitive to throw a giant seafood party while millions of people are going to starve, do you have a response?”
“First of all, you can look up my charity record. I might not donate to things everybody supports, but I donate a bleepload every year. Second, I'll invite anybody who says that to the party! If the venue isn't big enough we can put the overflow on my yacht. You wanna come? What was your name again? Cheryl, take this down. I'm putting you on speaker.”
“Shad Hutson, sir.”
“Shad? SHAD?! That's hilarious. British names, oh man. OK, you're definitely coming. I'll have Cheryl reach out. You're off speaker now. Cheryl, make sure we serve some shad at the party. Now, as I was saying, this is my last chance to eat fish. So I'm trying to get all the fish I can. Well, Cheryl is. I'm busy investing in bleep. Anyway—and I'm a little drunk, sorry about all that—I've already directed the Foundation to replace every calorie of fish we buy with some sort of more durable food and then some, especially if it comes from a needy population. I'm not a monster. And you've got to admit, this sounds like fun. Hell, you'll be there, Shad! Heh. 'Shad'.”
“Well, we're out of time. That was Gavriel Vartanian, founder of BankBuddy and prominent investor in the American technology sector. For the BBC, I'm Shad Hutson, and engineering is informing me that we're going to do about fifteen seconds of dead air now to catch up.”

“Who the fuck was that?” Cornelius said.
“He's this American tech wanker, donates to organizations that do weird stuff. Like these blokes who are trying to set up an independent state on an old oil derrick, say. Very odd duck, or strange bird if you prefer.”
“Ah, but is he a good egg?” Cornelius chuckled.
Nuts laughed and shook his head again. “I suppose time will tell.”
On the wall across from the fireplace, the phone rang.
“Excuse me,” Nuts said, and walked over to pick it up. “Eel Pie Island Eelhouse, James speaking, how may I help you?”
“Hello James, my name is Cheryl, and...”


–-----------


“What do you mean you don't have any shrimp?” Pearly said from inside the truck. “Everybody has shrimp. Well, everybody except me.”
“Somebody bought us out about an hour ago, ma'am,” said the grizzled man supervising the people who were loading the squid into the crates.
“Even the frozen shrimp?”
The man considered. “Oh, no ma'am, we have lots of frozen shrimp. Pounds, at least. D'you... should I check the freezer?”
“Yes please.”
He walked away and through the rear door of Western Boat & Tackle. It closed against the chipped doorframe with an audible whine. Pearly turned the radio back up.
From NPR News in Washington, I'm Dave Mattingly. Following the mysterious aquatic incident earlier today, FEMA crews have been dispatched to cities around the country, including New Orleans, Los Angeles, New York, and Miami. The National Guard has also been sent to Miami and Washington, D.C. Washington has experienced what seems to be a rising water table, with the Potomac...
How strange to be in an unperturbed place so close to what must have felt to some like the end of the world, Pearly thought.
This is KQED News, I'm Dave Davies. Emergency crews continue to rush to the Outer Sunset district to rescue victims of today's floods, while both bridges and the Transbay Tube have been closed for safety reasons. If you need or have information, please call the following number...
You know, sometimes living in Marin is alright.
Pearly turned the radio back down again, and grabbed her phone from her pocket. She called the Center.
“Marine Intelligence Research Center, this is Karen.”
“Hey, this is Pearly. I'm just calling to check in while they load the truck. How are things?”
There was the sound of typing. “Well, it seems like the octopuses have noticed something, at least according to Jeff. And ah, let's see... we've gotten an inquiry from the New York Times, I think... looks like Jeff is handling that one too. I think they want a quote on how the dolphins couldn't possibly be responsible. Erm, they couldn't, right?”
Karen... “They don't even have thumbs, how could they build a... I don't know, machine...? capable of this?”
“The reporter said they're very intelligent.”
“Well of course they are, that's why we study them. I don't understand why everybody thinks they're all some sort of fucking evil geniuses though. I mean, sure, they're assholes—don't even get me started—but... well. Oh god, he's going to give a Scientist Answer, isn't he? 'Well, we can't conclusively state that the dolphins didn't do it, but...' Hm, I swore a lot just there, sorry. I guess handing the interview to Jeff was the right idea, huh?” Pearly laughed.
“I'm sure I don't know what you mean.”
“I've gotta ask you where you learned these manners from some time.”
“Good parenting.”
“...ouch.”
“I'm sure I don't know what you mean.” Karen laughed.
“Anyway, so, no news really? I'm picking up the squid right now, by the way.”
“Let me check again... No, not much has happened in the last hour.”
“I suppose no news is good news. Alright Karen, I'll talk to you later. Bye.”
“Toodles!”
Karen. Anywho. Pearly hung up and opened up Angry Birds on her phone while she waited. She blew up some pigs. She'd be angry too if a bunch of pigs had stolen her eggs, so she didn't feel too bad about it. Plus she ate pigs at least once a week, so it'd be morally inconsistent if she cared about cartoon pigs, like, at all.
She was in the middle of shooting one of the big black birds—oh, how she loved using those (they explode! Explosions are cool!)--when the phone rang.
“This is Pearly.”
“Hello, my name is Cheryl, and—”
“Oh, hey Cheryl.”
There was a pause. “Oh sorry, I was just sort of following a script. Gavriel has me calling a shit-ton of people today.”
“So what's up?”
“Well, uh... Mr. V decided he wanted to eat some fish, which turned into him wanting to eat all the fish, and then that turned into a giant party, and... for a second that turned into founding a small island nation so that they could smoke weed at the giant party... it was a busy morning... anyway, he settled on just having a giant party. And then he said 'make it so!' or something like that, I mean he isn't Captain Picard but you get the idea. So I'm on like page fifteen of the list for this, oh! You're on page fifteen. You're invited, he figures it's the least he can do based on how hard you guys work for him. It's tomorrow night at, uh... BankBuddy Park. You probably know it as AT&T Park? God, it's amazing what those black cards can buy.”
“How am I even supposed to get there?”
“Well, the bridges are supposed to be open tomorrow, but he's really insistent on everybody being there, so I, uh, I may have rented a fleet of helicopters for if people can't get there.”
“That doesn't strike you as an inefficient allocation of resources during a crisis?”
“He said 'I pay enough in taxes already, if the government would rather spend it on food aid to Egypt than infrastructure here, that's their own problem.' I was being polite, so I didn't remind him that foreign aid is about two percent of the budget. I also didn't remind him that he does not, in fact, pay taxes. Frankly I'm not even sure he knows that, he has so many accountants...”
“I think I'm going to take a principled stand against this party. ...I'll still be there for little Sammy's birthday though, of course. That's... next week?”
“Mr. V will be pissed, but it's your choice, of course.”
“I'll talk to you later, Cheryl. Bye.” And she hung up again.
Pearly was getting frustrated just sitting in the car. She decided to go back into the store. She stepped out, closed the door, and went into the back door for Western Boat & Tackle. She passed through the storeroom—nothing to write home about, it was full of, you know, tackle—and into the shop proper. Johnny Cash was playing on the radio.

There's a man goin' round taking names
And he decides who to free and who to blame
Everybody won't be treated all the same—
There'll be a golden ladder reachin' down,
When the man comes around.

She walked up to the newsstand. There was a late edition of the Times in the top rack. She figured she'd buy a couple for posterity's sake.

The hairs on your arm will stand up
On the terror in each sip and in each sup

She walked up to the counter and started to pay.

Will you partake of that last offered cup?
Or disappear into the potter's ground?
When the man comes around.

She paused. Oh, for fuck's sake, destiny. Fine, I'll go to the goddamned party.


–------------------

The crew at Wakizashi Sushi was, for lack of a better term, in a blind panic. As Jiro Watanabe calmly and carefully butchered the tuna in the kitchen, his assistants were scrambling to refrigerate or (gasp!) freeze what had been, per usual, left mildly cooled for preparation for the lunch crowd. For their part, the early risers who he'd decided to let in (they were quite insistent about eating sushi) seemed glued to their phones as the news rolled in. Fukushima had been... well, let's not talk about Fukushima.
As they absentmindedly ate some of the world's finest (and final) sushi, they frantically texted friends and loved ones, read Facebook, and generally tried to figure out whether or not they should go to work. Several drank from large carafes of hot sake. And all the while, the frenzied staff cleared what remained on the sushi bar, shouting orders at one another. And all the while, Jiro stood silently in the kitchen, still except for his hand movements, cutting one of the world's biggest fish into ever smaller pieces.
“Get these on ice,” he said conversationally, indicating a number of slabs of meat with his knife. “And these.” He slid more flesh at the assistant. Leaning back and taking a deep breath, he effortlessly cut off two more. 
“What are we going to do, sir?” said the assistant.
“The only thing we're good at. We're going to make sushi.”
“Is it true what they say? About the fish?”
“I didn't say we were going to make sushi for long. The important thing is, we're making sushi right now. More for the ice, over here,” he indicated with his knife again.
“Yes sir.” 
“Is the tamago ready?”
“I'm not fit to judge, sir.”
“Well bring me somebody who can.” And on he cut.

–--------

“Phone for you, sir.”
Jiro looked up from the octopus he was preparing. “Can't it wait?”
“It's the president, sir.”
He finished assembling a piece of the nigiri and sighed. “Which president?”
“American, sir.”
He silently made two more. This did not take long. He served them over the counter. “Fine. Excuse me.” He bowed slightly and walked into the kitchen, where he picked up the phone.
“Mister president, your visit last year was truly an honor. May I ask why you're calling?”
“I wanted to invite you to a party.”
“Oh? When?”
“Tomorrow. In San Francisco. I can assure you, you'll be handsomely compensated.”
“How am I even supposed to get there?”
“Did you forget who you're talking to?”
“A fair point.”
“So is that a yes?”
Jiro thought. “Will... will there be fresh fish?”
“Fresh as anybody can get.”
“Dare I ask?”
“Money makes the world go 'round, mister Watanabe.”
“I am familiar with the expression.” Jiro looked around at the chaos in the kitchen, the half-dissected tuna carcass, the buckets full of ice... the shouting. “May I bring an assistant?”
“Anything you can fit into a car and a helicopter, mister Watanabe. We'll be taking you to Yokota, then to the States from there.”
“Excuse me for a moment.” Jiro let the phone dangle. “HIDEKI!”
A few seconds later a man in white approached and put a knife on the cutting board. “Yes sir?”
“Pack your things and package this tuna. We're going to America.”

–-------------

“So that's it, then? You're sending all your eel to San Francisco?” Cornelius Finch said.
“I don't suppose you'd like to try eating all of it,” Nuts said.
“Fair enough. So, er, need any help?”
“I guess I could bring Kate, but, erm, well. Some issues there.”
Cornelius had another bite of pie. “Ah, right. That. Well, if you were interested...”
“Of course I'm...” Nuts quited down. “Of course I'm interested in Kate, you barmpot.”
Cornelius chuckled. “I meant in having a friend tag along.”
“What do you know about eel?”
“Nothing, but you already admitted you have a plus one on your invite, and I've always got the trust fund if things go pear-shaped... excellent pie, by the way.”
Nuts chewed for a bit. “Well, thank you. I don't make the crust, but I guess we've got some in the freezer, we can work something out—damn it, now I'm already talking like you're my assistant.”
Once again Cornelius chuckled. “I am a charming bastard, you know. I'll buy you a drink on the plane.”
“Speaking of which...” Nuts said as he reached for the bottle of Jameson.

–---------------------

Perhaps a bit too much whiskey later, Nuts, Kate, and Cornelius had loaded all the available eel and dough into all the available coolers, using all the available ice. An RAF grunt in olive drab and a beret had somehow shown up on a ferry with an M35 cargo truck (2.5 tons, triple-axle, six wheels, you've probably seen one) with a couple gents in olive drab but without any hats, and a few hundred pounds of ice, and far too many crates. They dutifully and systematically took the eel out of the coolers and loaded them into the crates, replacing the ice with something that Nuts could only assume was a superior version of ice that only the military had access to.
He'd eaten RAF food once or twice before though, so he wondered if his own ice wasn't better. But regulations were regulations, and you don't question a fellow with a sidearm who's helping you take a free trip to San Francisco.
He'd never been there. Sounded like a fun time. First trip to America at all, in fact.
Plus, Nuts wasn't at his most coordinated. He'd just had two co-workers presumably die, and while they may have been Tories, Tories are people too (you can tell if you listen to their chests, they have beating hearts, believe it or not), so he was a little shaken up about that. Plus all the Jameson. So he just let the soldiers handle it.
They'd brought enough ice for all of the eel scraps as well, which they packed up just as systematically. They were done in a very short amount of time.
“Well, Mr. Adams, are you packed?” asked the fellow in the beret.
“Erm, not quite,” Nuts said. “Could I have a few moments?”
The fellow in the beret checked his watch. “A few, yes.”
Nuts gestured Cornelius to follow him inside.
“If you're coming you're going to have to come now, will that work?”
Cornelius shrugged. “I can just get more clothes when we land. Where are we landing, by the way?”
“They didn't say. I think we have some extra toothbrushes if you...”
“No, no, these are all problems I can solve. As Vonnegut said, 'Why throw money at problems? That is what money is for.' And there's plenty of money being thrown your way right now. Come along, I'll just borrow a jacket, you can pack and we can get out of here. I will take you up on the toothbrush though.”
“You? Borrow a jacket? ...you're like half my size,” Nuts said
“So I'll look stupid. I've done it before, you know.”
“Right now, actually.”
“Go pack your stuff, maybe I can take one of Kate's jackets then. Just hurry. And do please pack the extra toothbrush.”
Nuts considered for a moment. “OK, I'll be right b—”
“Oh, and a guitar if you have one.”
Nuts sighed. “Seriously? Also, I don't.”
Cornelius nodded. “No worries, I'll just buy one in America.”
Nuts shook his head. “You are unbelievable. I'll be back in a few.” And he left the room to go pack.

–---------------

Underwear, socks, pants, shoes, shirts, shorts, light jackets, windbreaker, dop kit, bumbershoot, extra toothbrush, laptop and power and phone charger and whatnot, and a coat for Cornelius... well, I guess that's it, Nuts thought. I mean, San Francisco is in California and there's no way it could be colder than London.
Cornelius and the RAF fellows were waiting outside, truck fully loaded, and the two without hats took their bags and then loaded them onto the truck. A bumpy ride followed as they went to the shore, then onto some sort of heavy-duty ferry, then down the road for a half hour or so to RAF Northolt, then boarded one of those big green cargo planes, watching the dusk deepen after the sunset out the windows as it took off. They were strapped to the wall, more or less.
Cargo plane, remember?

–-------------------

And the squid beak's connected to the
Mandible
And the mandible's connected to the
Buccal mass
And the buccal mass's connected to the
Radula
Now hear the word of Science...

Pearly liked to sing while she worked. She had unloaded the crates from the truck with a forklift and a couple of interns, and was now piling all the squid into the cold storage by hand. They'd already started feeding the dolphins with the shrimp. Squid kept better.
If Jeff was handling the press, and the dolphins had food... well, she wasn't going to get any research done today, let's be honest. Her mind turned to the party as she unloaded more squid.


My body's strong, my will is weak

I got pretty nice arms, but I hate my beak

And the dolphins are all phonies

They seem nice enough at first

But they pretend to be your friend

Until they see you at your worst

And then they leave you

Without a word they swim away...

She supposed she'd need an outfit. There were bound to be some big movers and shakers at the party, and the Center couldn't rely on Vartanian's generosity forever. It's not that he was fickle, but fortunes come and fortunes go, and BankBuddy had enough competitors as it was. Why, Western Boat & Tackle had even used Sphere as their point-of-sale system when she bought the shrimp.
Although he did have that hedge fund. Probably nothing to worry about unless Vartanian suddenly decided he wasn't interested in non-human intelligence any more...

We would be so happy you and me
No one there to tell us what to do
I'd like to be under the sea
In an octopus' garden with you...

OK, so she'd need something fancier than her current wardrobe, which was mostly practical things, heavy on jeans and button-ups and light on cocktail dresses. She'd need something that said... hm...

–-----------

“I'm sorry, something that says what?” said the woman at Macy's.
Pearly looked at the notepad she held. “Something that says I'm confident, but not a bitch; sexy, but not hot; a scientist, but not a nerd; I don't need your approval, but I wouldn't reject it either...”
“Stop stop stopstopstop.” She sighed. “How long is this list?”
Pearly flipped the page. Twice.
The woman sighed again. “Why don't you just let me see the notepad.”
Pearly handed it to her. The woman—her nametag said 'Brittney', so let's call her that—scanned it, flipped the page, scanned it, flipped the page, and sighed again. “Well, why don't we see if we can find something over in the cocktail section,” Brittney said.
They meandered through the various sections, passing the hats and shoes and dishware and whatnot, and arrived at the cocktail section.
“How about—” Brittney began.
“Nothing black,” Pearly said.
“Okay. Well, this collection over here is—”
“Is red, like my hair.”
Brittney looked her over. “Ah. Good point.”
“Let's see something blue. What about this one?” Pearly walked over to something with rhinestones and sleeves.
“Hm, let's try something else. What—”
“Ooh, I like this one.” Pearly indicated one with a flared skirt.
“Why don't you let me do the suggesting?” Brittney said.
“What's wrong with my suggestions?”
“Let me do the suggesting. Here, this might be what you're looking for, but... well, what's your budget?”
Pearly had already decided this was a business expense. The future of the Center might depend on having the right dress, after all. “I've got an AmEx black.”
“I'm sorry, we don't take AmEx,” Brittney said automatically.
“Fine, I have a Visa black.”
“Well then let's try this one on,” Brittney said, perhaps a touch too greedily. She took a blue sleeveless Pamella Roland shift dress off the rack and held it up to Pearly. “The dressing rooms are back there,” she said, pointing towards the wall.
Pearly had to admit, it looked just about right, and the sleeveless design helped emphasize the arms she had from working with her hands half the time. It didn't scream 'scientist', so she'd have to wear glasses instead of contacts... She walked back out into the store.
“Looking good,” Brittney said. “Now let's talk about shoes.”

–---------------------

Fully equipped with dress, shoes, and accessories, Pearly drove back to her San Rafael apartment. Parked, brought everything inside, hung up the dress. The dog was happy to see her.
“Good boy, Bowser,” she said, scratching the dog of indeterminate ancestry behind the ears. Bowser for his part wagged his tail. He was big enough that you didn't want his tail anywhere near the coffee table when he was excited, but not too big to keep in an apartment. “Come on, let's go for a walk,” Pearly said.

As the sun set on the closing booths of the 4th Street Farmers' Market, Pearly and Bowser strolled down the road, Pearly wondering what the future would bring, and Bowser wondering what that tree smelled like and whether he should try to change that.

–-----------------------

A few hours after they took off (technically speaking. Traveling West is weird), Nuts and Cornelius landed at Travis Air Force Base outside of Fairfield, CA. They'd both dozed a fair bit during the flight—it wasn't like there had been a movie showing, and Nuts got bored playing with his phone after a few hours. There were only so many podcasts a man could listen to before he started to lose it, especially if said man had been limited to those he could download over cellular on the way to the RAF base.
They unbuckled, grabbed their bags from the webbing, and stepped down the ramp, going carefully around the troops who were already beginning to unload the crates full of eel. They weren't so much stopped by the man who walked up to them on the tarmac as they were compelled to stop by his mere presence. 
He wielded a clipboard formidably. “Lieutenant McNiece, gentlemen. Shall we?” he said.
Cornelius started to speak. “Shall we, er... shall we wh—”
“Which one of you is Mr. Finch?” McNiece said.
This time Cornelius just started. “Uh, that'd be me, sir.”
McNiece rattled a pen on the clipboard. “Let's see. Cornelius Finch, twenty-five, pre-approved on account of parentage, unemployed, preexisting charge for possession, you sir must come from one hell of a family. I don't suppose you're one of those Finches.”
“I don't see wh—” Cornelius said.
“Passport?”
“Er...” Cornelius said.
“Seriously?” Nuts said, turning.
“Well I didn't have it with me when you—”
McNiece checked a box and wrote a note. “And you'd be Mr. Adams?”
“Yes sir,” Nuts said.
“James Francis Xavier Adams, twenty-seven—”
“I prefer the nickname 'Nuts', sir.”
McNiece scribbled something down. “Eel fisherman, you're the custodian of these crates, correct?”
“That's right, sir.”
“Passport?”
Nuts dug through one of his bags and pulled out his red passport. “Here you are.”
McNiece flipped through it and examined a few of the pages closely. “Turkey?” His eyebrow rose.
“Trip with a lady friend, sir. Tourism.”
“Hm. Well, everything seems to be in order.” He scribbled something on one of the available visa pages, handed the passport back, and returned to his clipboard, again rapping it with his pen. “Sign here, please,” he said after a moment, passing it to Nuts and Cornelius, who did. “Mr. Adams, welcome to America. Mr. Finch, if you could just come with my colleague here for a moment...”
“Wait, wh—” Cornelius said.
“This will only take a moment, Mr. Finch.”

–----------------

A lane on I-80 had apparently been closed off for official purposes, and this was apparently an official purpose, so the Air Force cargo truck they were in got to use it. They rumbled down the freeway past the evening gridlock that seemed to go as far as the eye could see (and they were on a hill.) They were joined mostly by fellow military vehicles, CHiPS, and the occasional emergency vehicle that everybody dutifully pulled onto the shoulder for. 
It was, all things told, the fastest trip down I-80 to San Francisco that had ever occurred during rush hour.
“So I guess I still owe you that drink!” Cornelius shouted.
“What?!” Nuts shouted.
“The Jameson that I said I'd buy you on the plane!”
“Oh!”
Cargo truck, remember?
“What happened when they took you aside?!” Nuts shouted.
“They checked with Scotland Yard to make sure I was me! Corner cams!”
“Well are you?!”
“Apparently!”
“What the hell do your parents do, anyway?!”
“I don't know—”
The truck pulled over as a police car roared past.
“—exactly, but they're involved in some pretty shady banking practices!” Cornelius shouted over the sudden lack of din.
The driver blinked, cleared his throat, and dutifully said nothing as he pulled back onto the road.
“Why is the Air Force transporting us, anyway?!” Nuts shouted.
“I don't know man, I didn't do it!”

–--------------

Yerba Buena Island, just off of San Francisco, held a Coast Guard facility that hadn't taken much damage from the waves since it was on the East end of the island and in an already-sheltered bay, and that is exactly where Nuts and Cornelius ended up for the night. As the crates were carted off into the kitchen, they were shown to some sort of guest housing, where they fell asleep almost immediately, exhausted from the journey.

–-------------

Hideki Mori returned to Wakizashi Sushi admirably quickly, certainly more quickly than Jiro was expecting. Jiro nodded approvingly. “Mind the restaurant, Hideki. I'm going upstairs to pack. You can put your bags in the back.”
“Yes sir, an honor sir. I'll see you soon, sir,” Hideki said. He bowed. Jiro acknowledged him with a brief dip, then spun and walked out the front door towards the building's main elevator. He could hear Hideki begin to shout commands as soon as he was outside the restaurant.
He rode the elevator to the ninth floor, opened his apartment door, briefly paused at the small shrine to his late cat, and entered his bedroom.
Coat. Socks. Shoes. Shirts. Pants. Belt. Underwear. Chef's outfit. Knives.
He paused.
...Scarf. Hat. Extra coat.
He'd been to San Francisco in the summer before.
...Sweater.

–---------------

The cooler full of tuna barely fit into the back of the black SUV that the government had sent. Jiro and Hideki's hanging bags blocked both of the rear side windows, and their other suitcases sat at their feet. For much of the trip, they both wordlessly played with their phones.
At one point, Hideki asked the camouflage-clad driver, “May I ask why the Air Force is transporting us?”
The driver steered around a curve. “Orders of the President, Mr. Nori.”
“May I ask why the President—”
“He requested Mr. Watanabe's skills.”
“May I ask where the urgency comes from?”
Jiro turned to look at Hideki. “A wool coat is an acceptable gift, even in summer, Hideki.”

–--------------

The airplane landed at Travis Air Force Base approximately three hours before they took off (technically speaking. Traveling East is weird.) They'd each slept for much of the flight; one of the rules for not getting jet lag was to pretend you're already there, and then sleep when you would have been supposed to have been sleeping, instead of being awake when your body by rights thought you should have been awake, and then arriving wanting to sleep. (Forgive the grammar. Traveling East is weird.)
Lieutenant McNiece met them with a clipboard as they left the airplane.
“Lieutenant McNiece, gentlemen. Shall we?”
Jiro and Hideki handed him their passports.
McNiece read the visa pages carefully. “Can't ding you for Taiwan...” he said, and consulted his clipboard. “Beijing, Mr. Nori?”
Hideki bowed slightly. “Simple business,” he said.
“Hm. Well, everything seems to be in order.” He scribbled something on both passports, handed them back, and returned to his clipboard, rapping it with his pen. “Welcome to America, Mr. Watanabe and Mr. Nori. Please follow my colleague here to the helicopter. I assure you the tuna will be carted into it as you walk.”
“Thank you, sir,” Jiro said, with a slight nod. “Ma'am,” he said to the colleague, “please lead the way.”

–------------

The helicopter ride to San Francisco General Hospital was surprisingly brief. Why they landed on the hospital's helipad was anybody's guess. Presidential privilege, one supposed. They, their luggage, and the cooler rode the service elevator to the ground floor and entered a waiting van, in which they were driven to the San Francisco Fairmont, and ushered upstairs to their adjacent rooms.
When Jiro entered his, there was an album of jazz standards playing on a small Bose speaker system at the nightstand. A nice touch. He unpacked with a bit of a rhythmic flair to his motions.

–------------------

As the rosy-fingered dawn found its way to the wine-dark bay, Pearly still tossed and turned beneath the sheets.
She was scuba diving, riding along with a nurse shark, loosely grasping one of its dorsal fins, remoras waving gently on its back as they swam together. A marlin swam by. A swordfish swam by. A tuna swam by. Pearly started getting hungry. A twenty-five-foot-long shark with teeth the size of shotglasses swam by. Pearly was concerned that it was getting hungry too. She let go and hung back a bit.
Suddenly it turned on the nurse shark. Easily ten feet longer, it tore into the flesh and started to kill. It turned again and attacked the swordfish, then the marlin. The tuna escaped. 
Pearly looked at her hands and saw that she'd cut herself on the nurse shark's skin in her rush to escape. Blood wafted gently through the seawater.
The big shark noticed. What the hell was that, anyway? Far too big to realistically be a Great White, though it resembled one in practically every way. But, well, the important thing was not getting eaten. Gripping her hand to her wetsuit, Pearly dove.
Not that any of that mattered much, though, since the shark disappeared a few seconds later. 
Along with the marlin and the swordfish and the nurse shark and the remoras and probably the tuna. The current got suddenly choppy. Another diver appeared in front of her and grabbed her arm.
“Come with me if you want to live!” said Gavriel Vartanian through a regulator, pointing at a submarine that had apparently been there the entire time.
Pearly's legs kicked about as she tried to maintain her position in the roiling ocean. “Seriously? You're going with Terminator?”
“This isn't my dream, Pearly. We could do, I dunno, fuckin' Inception if you'd like? Fuck knows I can afford the effects budget.”
A building began constructing itself around them. Some sort of dull cube. 
“I just want to go home!” Pearly said.
Gavriel considered. “You'll be at the damn party though, yes?” he said. “God, it's been a pain in the ass to plan.”
“I already bought an outfit.”
“Then your wish is my command,” he said. “Well, sorta. Gotta look out for number one, you know?” And with that he folded his arms, nodded his head, and—
Pearly woke up. Bowser was at the side of the bed, staring at her intently, his chin resting on the mattress. As her eyes opened, he began to whine, tail wagging.
“Yeah, yeah, we'll go for a walk in a minute,” Pearly said. Bowser ran off as she got out of bed. She put on yesterday's jeans and a hoodie and one shoe, and Bowser came back carrying a leash in his mouth.
One eye-roll later, she had both shoes on her feet and the leash on Bowser. 
The street was... well, something had changed. It wasn't a ghost-town, exactly, but the usual traffic to be expected from a Wednesday morning, on an arterial highway no less, was simply not there, and the dangerous-looking drifters didn't even have the common courtesy to be visible enough to be ignored. She tossed a quarter in the cup of a non-dangerous-looking drifter as she and Bowser passed by.
“God bless!” he yelled after.
“I'd suggest looking elsewhere!” she yelled back.

–---------------

The coffee wasn't bad. She drank it and brought Bowser back home, then went out to a cafe for breakfast. She actually ended up in a diner and got a Monte Cristo.
End of the world, why not have one for breakfast?
She ate the first half with reserved zeal, although to be honest there was actually plenty of standard zeal involved.
Her phone rang.
“Ms. Sweetcake, may I help you?” she said.
“Hello, my name is Ch-”
“Hey Cheryl. What's up.”
Cheryl paused. “Seriously, you have no idea how many people I've been calling. Sorry.”
“Not a problem. What's up?”
“Well, Mr. V wanted to make sure you could make it to The City today.”
“I haven't checked the news yet... what's up with the bridges or, I don't know, the ferry?”
Pearly could hear papers shuffling over the phone.
“Well,” Cheryl said, “the ferries are out for safety reasons, and the Bay Bridge is closed because the new extension might, you know... kill everybody... but the Golden Gate seems fine. I can also just send a helicopter. We have like twenty.”
Pearly considered. “Tell you what. Why don't I drive down this morning, and if I have a problem with the bridge, I'll call you from Sausalito and you can just send one of those helicopters.”
There was more paper shuffling. “You... hmm, you may have to share that helicopter with a couple of dorks from England, pardon my French—”
“Dork is not a French word.”
“This is why we don't hang out any more, Pearly. Anyway. Well, I guess that was the end of what I had to say. I've got a long list... and let's reconnect some time, yeah?”
“What would we be if we didn't even try? See you tonight.”
“Bye.”
The phone clicked off.
Pearly got the second half of the sandwich boxed up, headed home, and decided that a light nap was in order before she started getting ready for the evening. Last night had not been the most restful sleep she'd ever had.

–----------------

Nuts awoke to somewhat frigid conditions. The old cinder block building did not seem to have the best insulation, and the only heating was a series of unplugged radiators. He could hear the surf faintly through the barred windows, which had evidently been left cracked open. It was—he checked his phone—about seven text messages past 10am. He'd already told his friends and family where he was going... apparently it hadn't really took.
He rubbed the sleep out of his eyes and walked towards what appeared to be a kitchenette. Fumbling around in the darkishness, he was unable to locate a machine that would boil water or make coffee with the press of a button. He was additionally unable to locate a container which held either tea or coffee. Nuts resigned himself to trudging to what he was fairly sure was the WC.
A bit later, with those unpleasantries finished—which was a fair bit of an ordeal, the toilet paper being much more effective than he was used to and the toilet itself being unflushable until he realized there wasn't even one button (not to mention two buttons) but instead some sort of handle—Nuts trudged back out and opened the refrigerator. It was empty.
There was a knock at the door. Cornelius started awake. “No no no no no no no no no—” he said. He shook his head. “Excuse me.” He stood up, looked around, and walked to the WC.
Nuts opened the door. McNiece stood at it with his clipboard.
“Yes sir?” Nuts said.
The sounds of vomiting and retching could be heard from the WC.
“I presume that's Mr. Finch I'm hearing,” McNiece said.
Nuts sighed. “You'd not be mistaken,” he said.
McNiece consulted his clipboard. The retching continued. “So.” He cleared his throat to drown out the noise. “Are you ready to head into San Francisco proper?”
“Well, I can't speak for my colleague, but I am prepared, more or less. Although I don't suppose we could get a spot of tea first, and some biscuits?”
The Lieutenant thought for a moment. “Well,” and he double-checked his clipboard, “breakfast isn't part of our protocol for the day, but I'll see if I can't wrangle up some caffeine and carbs for you two. Your friend sounds a touch dehydrated, he doesn't travel much, does he?”
“No sir. First time out of the country in fact.”
McNiece nodded. “And some Gatorade. I shall return.” He turned and walked out of the building.
“You going to be alright in there, Corny?” Nuts shouted.
“...water?” Cornelius choked out.
“Sure, let me find a glass.”
Back to the kitchenette. One of the cupboards held a series of plastic cups. Good enough. Nuts took two, filled them with water, drank one down—always a good habit for the morning—and brought the other to the WC. “I can come in?” he said.
“Yes please.”
Nuts opened the door and handed the cup to Cornelius, who was sitting on the (closed) toilet catching his breath. 
“Airplanes are pretty dehydrating, you know,” Nuts said.
“That is evident,” Cornelius said, sipping the water. “I don't suppose there's tea?” he said.
“The Lieutenant is—” He heard a rap on the front door. “—here with it, apparently.”
Nuts left the WC and opened the door. McNiece had exchanged his clipboard for a tray, and by the look on his face he had done so begrudgingly.
“We only had Irish Breakfast Tea,” he said, indicating two mugs with his chin, “and, well, you said 'biscuits' so here are some biscuits,” he said, indicating three buttermilk biscuits, “although I can't for the life of me imagine that this is what you meant. And a Gatorade for your friend. He might not be able to keep water down.” He thrust the tray at Nuts, who took it. McNiece held onto the clipboard, which he'd apparently clutched upside-down under the tray.
“Thank you, sir. How much time do we have?”
McNiece checked his list. “Let's say a quarter 'til.”
Nuts screwed up his eyebrows. “Which is?”
“Ten forty-five. Please be washed and...” he said, checking the list again, “...dressed 'reasonably nicely but not ostentatiously', with—excuse me, this list was revised while I was out.” If McNiece had had glasses, he would have adjusted them. “With, ahem, 'ethnic flair, if possible', whatever the hell that means.” He cleared his throat. “I'm pretty sure Vartanian wrote this. The Air Force sure as hell didn't.”
“Er, we'll see what we can do, sir.”
“That's all we can really ask.” McNiece turned and left again, closing the door behind him.
“Hey Corny! You OK?” Nuts said.
Cornelius left the WC. “Well enough, I suppose. What's going on?” he said.
Nuts paused. “I don't suppose you have any, erm, 'ethnic flair', do you?”
Cornelius took a sip of water. “What the fuck is that?”
“Fuck if I know. Did you bring that tweed hat of yours?”
“Of course I bloody did. I was wearing it when we left.”
“I'll just pick up a pin or something once we get to the, er... mainland? Whatever they call it out here. San Francisco.”
“Didn't you bring your Doc Martens?”
“Of course, those are my work boots—good lord, are those still 'ethnic'?”
“Let's just get dressed,” Cornelius said in a rare moment of practicality. “How long do we have?”
“Ahm,” Nuts said, checking his phone, “about fifteen minutes. Why don't you shower first.”
“Mmk.” Cornelius took his suitcase into the WC.
Nuts put the tray down on a table and experimented with dipping what passed as a 'biscuit' here into what passed for 'tea'.

–----------

Well, the Golden Gate Bridge was certainly open, but it was much more of a parking lot than a chunk of interstate. Pearly had hit the gridlock early on, and decided to slog her way through side-streets, up and down winding hill roads. She had stopped for a sandwich in Mill Valley ($12? What the hell?), and on the way out she had sat in traffic for about ten minutes to go about ten yards, so she promptly exited again and took the frontage road all the way down to a roadhouse, where she decided to stop for a beer. 
“You're here early,” the bartender said from across the lacquered surface, sliding an Anchor Steam her way.
“Yeah, well, it's been kind of a stressful couple of days,” Pearly said, some foam clinging to her upper lip.
“Been a little crazy, I'll give you that. What do you do? I'm a bartender, obviously,” said the bartender.
“I research cetacean intelligence at the—”
“I'm sorry, what?” the bartender interrupted.
“Whale biologist,” Pearly said.
The bartender whistled. “That must have been really rough, losing all your research subjects—”
Pearly chugged her beer down and slammed the empty glass on the coaster. “Whales aren't fish,” she said. After an awkward pause, she said, “give me another.”
“I'll need a card to start your tab.”
She opened her wallet. “You... you don't take American Express, do you.”
The bartender laughed. “Lady, this is Mill Valley. Of course we do.”
Pearly handed him the card.
“Coming right up,” the bartender said, then slid another Anchor Steam her way after the pour was finished.
She checked her phone. No texts, no missed calls, no Facebook messages, no Tinder matches, no BankBuddy receipts or invoices, no Twitter updates, nothing over WhatsApp, no Yo's, no messages from Google Hangouts, no contact updates, no new turns on Words With Friends, and no challengers from Trivia Crack. Then she remembered why she was checking her phone, and looked at the time on the top. 11:01.
“And some cheese sticks,” she said.
“Sure thing.” The bartender walked back into the kitchen.
Pearly checked her email. There was a very peculiar message from Cheryl.

Last night—the night of The Incident—Gavriel got wasted and drafted a suicide note. Things might go to shit at any moment, I guess, and he wanted to be sure that he was well armed for the situation. Not that he wasn't well armed usually, legally or not, California laws be damned.
What follows is a suicide note.

INSTRUCTIONS:
Treat Carl Sagan’s “Pale Blue Dot” speech as most of my suicide note, or at least saying what I’m trying to say.
Given that this thing you’re reading is actually my suicide note, I guess please read the Pale Blue Dot speech at my…
eulogy? Is that what you call the thing where everybody’s nice to you for one last time?
Cheryl?
Eulogy, that’s it, I was right.

COMMENTARY:
I was at a funeral one time--I’ve been at many, more than I’d care to for sure--but this is one in particular that I thought was worth writing about. It was this old studio musician. We did a New Orleans style jazz funeral, paraded down the streets. I played the trombone. We went through bars, his funeral fund had bought shots of Jager for everybody. Part of the guy’s will I guess. Just a few bars in town, not that extravagant, then we went off to the wake in the old VFW hall.

Poor son of a bitch had already been cremated, so it was just his urn on the central table, but still a right proper Irish style wake. I doubt his ashes were actually in it. Crowd was pretty rowdy already by the time I got there and looked like they might spill the damned thing on accident by the time I left. I helped spread his ashes the next week by the lake, along with a handful of his wife’s--I guess the family had held onto a bit of hers, waiting for him. It was pretty nice, if not kind of illegal.

INSTRUCTIONS:
That’s how I’d like mine to go.

Not this fucking lake though, it’s a piece of shit. Maybe something over in the Rockies where they still have water that isn’t mostly dirt. You know what? Fuck it. The ocean. Scatter them along the ocean. And save a handful of my ashes for whatever son of a bitch decides they need it. Can’t think of anybody who deserves that burden, but I can think of a few people who might want it.
Gavriel out.
(Dictated but not read.)
--Cheryl 

–------------

Well that was disquieting, Pearly thought. She typed out a response.
Uh, should I be worried?
--Sent from my iPhone
She checked the news while she worked on her second beer. Fish, fish... fish...... fish. She checked Politico. 
GOP Slams President Vargas for Slow FEMA Response
Vargas: National Guard, Army Reserve Bases Damaged; Short on Vehicles
Sen. Martin (R-TX): Voted Against Hurricane Relief Because NE Doesn't Need Pork-Barrel Politics; This Different
USA PATRIOT Act Reauthorization Passes House 433-0-2
VP Jameson Deep-Sea Fishing Morning of Incident; What Did he Know and When Did he Know It?
Well, that was a bust. Vapid and all about fish. She had another sip of her beer. Her phone beeped. New email.
That's just Gavriel. He's fine.
--Cheryl
Well that's good, at least.

–-------------

There are two quotes, unrelated but thematically similar, that Gavriel Vartanian has framed on his office wall. The first is from General Ulysses S. Grant, during the (first and possibly only) United States Civil War. He takes it to be about the general importance of focusing on the here and now:

Oh, I am heartily tired of hearing about what Lee is going to do. Some of you always seem to think he is suddenly going to turn a double somersault, and land in our rear and on both of our flanks at the same time. Go back to your command, and try to think what we are going to do ourselves, instead of what Lee is going to do.

The second is from boxer Mike Tyson:

People were asking me, 'What’s going to happen?[...] They were talking about his style. 'He's going to give you a lot of lateral movement. He's going to move, he's going to dance. He's going to do this, do that.'
I said, "Everybody has a plan until they get punched in the mouth.”

Gavriel took this quote to be about the importance of constant training so that one's instincts are correctly calibrated in unexpected moments, as well as the importance of contingency planning. Hence the contingency suicide note; it had only taken a few minutes, and it covered an unlikely scenario but could also act as a living will once the lawyers had given it a once-over. Well, at least as far as funereal concerns went.
He picked up a microcassette recorder from his leather-topped desk. “Cheryl, schedule me a meeting with the lawyers about a living will. They've been riding my ass about it for years, probably time to do it. End-of-life planning too.”
The other aspect of the quote that Gavriel kept in mind was the importance of striking fast and hard to put your opponent off-guard if you needed to (in business, of course; he was no boxer). He'd built up quite an empire keeping these two quotes in mind. Doublethink, to be sure, but one of the signs of a failing businessman is having any adherence to orthodoxy.
We now return you to the story of Pearly Sweetcake's trip to San Francisco.

–-------------

Pearly finished her beer. “Can I close out?” she said.
“Sure, one sec,” the bartender said, as he fiddled with an iPad. The roadhouse was using Sphere for cards too? They're really taking over the market...
After a few swipes the card went through. “Here you go,” he said, handing her the iPad and card. She tipped and drew a silly picture instead of signing (a crude representation of a dragon flipping you off, if you were curious). “Thanks,” she said
“See you later,” the bartender said.
She left and got back into the truck and started it. 
The flooding has begun to subside West of the coastal range, and emergency crews have largely finished cleaning up the worst of the damage by Ocean Beach, Pacifica, and Half-Moon Bay. Monterey continues to be a problem area—”
Pearly turned the radio off. She didn't want to think about Monterey. The Aquarium must have been absolutely devastated. Although the otters would still have lots of urchins and shellfish to eat, at least for the time being.
She pulled back onto the frontage road and took a detour off to Highway 1. It was running smoothly enough, she supposed, but she'd need to start the process all over once it merged with 101. Ain't nobody got time for that, as they say. She took out her phone and held the home button. “Call Cheryl,” she said.
“Calling Cheryl...” Siri said.
Pearly put it on speaker.
“Hey Pearly. What's up? Make it quick.”
“I'm gonna need that helicopter after all.”
“Sure thing. Um, one second...” Pearly heard the clacking of a keyboard. “Right. OK, head to... Do you know where the Commodore Center is?”
“...no.”
“I'll send you a pin. Got any cargo?”
“Just a hanging bag and a backpack.”
“...OK, that'll work, I think. Just head to the spot I'm texting you and say that Vartanian sent you, they'll tell you where to park and it should be pretty straightforward from there. Got it?”
“Yes ma'am. See you tonight.”
“Bye.”
As she continued towards the merge, she got a text. She pulled over and opened up the location contained therein on the map. Well, that was pretty straightforward. She got back on the road, bypassed the merge on the left, and next thing she knew she was at some tiny airport. She pulled up to the gate and said “Here for a helicopter from Vartanian.”
The gate guard didn't even have to consult a list before he said “Parking's ahead and to the left, helipad's at the end of the road,” and then he rolled his eyes and opened the gate.
Pearly parked, grabbed a pair of sunglasses from the center console, put them on, got out, and just lazed on the hood and windshield as she waited for the helicopter.

–-----------------

The streets of the financial district and environs in San Francisco were practically deserted. The stock markets were all closed and many of the banks temporarily frozen, so the entire financial industry had stayed home. The startup employees, who were actually working overtime (well, more overtime than usual) to keep the world's Facebook posts and Tweets flowing, all biked to work and had already arrived. Certain blocks bristled with parked bicycles, while others were merely populated by the usual itinerants, homeless, and SRO occupants. Most of the businesses were dark, save for the bodegas, fast-food restaurants, and hotels. 
A lone taxi crawled around the corner. Nobody hailed it.
There were no Vietnamese sandwiches to be had, no Irish pubs at which one could grab an early pint, even the crack dealers seemed to be taking the day off. If your tire blew out, not that anybody was driving, you'd find the repair shops closed. The parking meters all sadly blinked their red 'expired' light.
This was the environment that Jiro and Hideki found themselves walking through between the hotel and the recently renamed BankBuddy Park.
“May I ask,” Hideki said, hefting a medium-sized red suitcase, “why we declined the offer of a ride to the ballpark?”
“Walking is good for you,” Jiro said, striding ahead of Hideki. “Besides, I wanted you to see the city.”
Hideki paused and considered his surroundings. “You wanted me to see this?” he said.
“There are other parts of the city,” Jiro said. “Besides, when was the last time you experienced poverty?”
“I do have family in Manila, you know. Though I haven't been there in a number of years,” Hideki said.
They dodged around a leather-and-studs-clad couple with a pit bull.
“The dogs here are quite large,” Hideki said.
“Many things are larger in America,” Jiro said. “Dogs, cats, sidewalks, egos...”
And on they walked. Slowly the environment turned back to luxury retail—watch stores, glasses stores, entire malls, the Diesel store, the Armani store—all closed, the streets even more deserted than before. 
“Did the government not say after September 11, 2001, that the important thing was to 'go shopping'?” Hideki said.
“Not quite,” Jiro said. “They said that Americans must live their normal lives, in order to... well, the rest I don't quite know.”
“And the Americans did not take it to heart.”
“Ignoring bad advice is a sign of intelligence, Hideki.”
“The American people are not known for their wisdom,” Hideki said.
“That is a different square on the character sheet,” Jiro said.
Hideki thought for a moment as they crossed Market street. “I'm not sure I'm familiar with that proverb, sir,” he said.
Jiro chuckled. “No, I suppose you wouldn't be.”

–--------

They passed the back of the closed Westfield mall and headed down Mission street toward the Metreon. 
“Why is everything closed?” Hideki said.
“Why is my restaurant closed?” Jiro said.
“Because you aren't there... ah,” Hideki said.
They proceeded. 
“What a nice park,” Hideki said as they passed the falling waters at Yerba Buena.
“Indeed,” Jiro said.
They turned right at 3rd street, walking down the slim sidewalk that would ordinarily have protected them from the traffic. After a few moments of being hemmed in by the yellow bars despite no cars traveling by, they decided to walk on the street.
“Did you know,” Hideki said as he shifted the weight of the suitcase around, “that 'yerba buena' is Spanish for 'good herb' and refers to a local spice?”
“I did not,” Jiro said.
“Yes, it's the source of a local pun, in fact, about canna—”
A disheveled man hopped out from a doorway and approached them with a knife. “Your money or your lives!” he shouted.
Jiro looked around briefly and stepped forward with his hands up, one of them holding a wallet. “We do not want any trouble—” he said, and then disarmed the man, broke his nose, and shoved him onto the other side of the street. 
The man regained his senses and ran away. Jiro put the knife in his pocket.
“You would do well to learn more about cooking and martial arts, and less about San Francisco and smoking cannabis, Hideki,” Jiro said.

–-----------

“That's the ballpark, then?” Hideki said, audibly panting, as they approached AT&T... er, I'm sorry, BankBuddy Park (it's amazing what those black cards can buy for you). 
“Yes, Hideki. What else would it be?” Jiro said.
“Fair enough,” Hideki said.
Jiro walked down the street mindlessly. A bodega here, a brunch place there, and a brewery seemed to be the only things open. “Grab a beer with me, Hideki?” he said.
“Gladly, sir.”
Jiro and Hideki headed into the La Coryphene Bar and Grille. A giant space of dark wooden tables under an aged cantilevered metal dome, it was impressive to simply walk into. Doing so while it was nearly empty was stunning. So much potential, and so little done with it. Masterful.
“Two, for beers,” Jiro said to the hostess. She walked them past countless empty tables to the bar at the far end, and set them down on stools with two drink menus.
“The bartender will be right with you,” she said.
They read their menus.
“What is an IPA?” Hideki asked.
“Avoid those,” Jiro said. 
“But that's half the beers here,” Hideki said.
“You have much to learn about California,” Jiro said.
The bartender came by. “Have you decided?” he said.
“Two of the, ah, Bronze Armadillo's, please,” Jiro said.
“Coming right up,” the bartender said.
They both played with their phones as their beers arrived. Hideki regarded his skeptically.
“Oh, just drink it,” Jiro said.
Hideki took a hefty sip. “What is this?” he said.
“Hefeweizen,” Jiro said, drinking his own pint. “It's... German style.”
Hideki took another hefty sip. “OK,” he said. 
The morning sun turned into the noonday sun, and they finished their beers, then ordered some potato skins (Jiro assured Hideki that they would not be terrible). As they got another round, the sound of helicopters came and went as they ate and drank.

–---------------

“Halt, sir!”
Jiro halted at the entrance tunnel to the ballpark. “Yes?” he said.
So there's a thing about the various parts of the so-called deep government, which is that you can't necessarily tell where anybody you meet is from. Could be CIA, NSA, Secret Service, FBI, some other TLA you've never heard of. They used to call NSA “No Such Agency” and “Never Say Anything,” after all. DHS, INS, all these guys, you can spot them a mile away. They're “The Men In Black,” right? 
Right.
Jiro and Hideki were unaware of all this, so they simply had no clue who they were talking to.
“Hands on your heads, please.”
Hideki put the suitcase on the ground and complied. Jiro complied as well.
“A knife, sir?” said the non-uniformed man as he patted Jiro down.
“You'll find many more in the suitcase,” he said. “As well as a chef's uniform.”
The man checked the suitcase. “Do you have any credentials?” he said.
“If I may reach into my pocket,” Jiro said, “I can call Mr. Vartanian. Both of our passports are in that bag, and should you have a list, you can check it. I am Jiro Watana—”
The man abruptly stood to attention and cleared his throat. “Sir, I apologize for the difficulty. Please wait while I confirm your identity; this other fellow would be your assistant, a Mr... Nori?”
“Mori,” Jiro said, and nodded. “That's correct.”
The man pulled their passports from the bag, handed them to a newly-arrived aide, and paused. “Well, if you'd just come with me, I'm sure we can at least get you into the locker room. Ah, I presume you won't be offended if we take your knives until Mr. Vartanian tells us where to put them.” He reached into the bag and handed the block of knives to the aide, and Jiro and Hideki followed him to the locker room. 

–-----------------

“Is every vehicle in America this loud?!” Cornelius shouted to Nuts from the back of the helicopter.
“I presume not!” Nuts shouted back. “We've had the misfortune of only riding in military vehicles so far, mind!”
Nuts looked out the window as they passed over some sort of extremely long bridge. He recognized the Golden Gate off to the left; you don't watch something like that get destroyed in every disaster movie and not learn what it looks like. He wondered how much trouble they had to go to in order to keep it the same shade of orange all the time. It was hard enough keeping the eelhouse paint from chipping, and the Thames wasn't even particularly salty. Then again, neither was the San Francisco Bay, which was technically an estuary.
Still.
Off to his right, Nuts could see the shipping cranes in the Port of Oakland, maybe one-third of them having collapsed on top of container ships that were in various states of sinking or altogether swamped. He thought they resembled the AT-AT walkers from Star Wars. Even the collapsed ones looked like the walkers after they'd been tripped up and destroyed by those, what do you call them, speeders? With the tow cables.
It'd been a while since he'd seen Star Wars. Perhaps it was time to revisit it.
“Where are we going, anyway?!” Cornelius shouted, breaking Nuts out of his reverie.
“A city called Sausalito!” Nuts shouted back, not quite grasping the actual population there.
“Isn't that some kind of cookie?!” Cornelius shouted.
“Do you even listen to yourself?!” Nuts shouted.
“It's not like I can look it up on the Internet! I've not got a single wired device handy!”
Nuts shook his head. “We should remedy that immediately! It's not actually something that should make you proud, you know!”
Cornelius appeared to chuckle. “If you find me an open Apple Store, or whatever it is they have  here, I'll sign up!”
“Sounds like a plan!” Nuts shouted.
The helicopter finished crossing the bay and banked slightly right as it headed to the Commodore Center.

–--------------

“Hi, I'm Dr. Sweetcake. Pleased to meet you. Oh, what's that? Cetacean intelligence. I just— well, what that means is— ”
This imaginary practice conversation wasn't going very well.
“Hi, I'm Dr. Sweetcake. Pleased to meet you. Oh, what's that? I work with dolphin brains— ”
No.
“Hi, I'm Dr. Sweetcake. Pleased to meet you. Oh, what's that? I'm a whale biologist. Why yes, that is pretty neat!”
There we go.
Whuff-whuff-whuff-whuff-whuff...
Pearly heard the helicopter before she saw it. She checked to make sure it was approaching the helipad, and then took her hanging bag and backpack from the truck. By reflex, she also removed the stereo faceplate and stuffed it in the backpack, and checked the glove box to make sure nothing important was in there.
She pocketed the telescoping baton from the glove box—what, you've gotta protect yourself—and closed it.
The helicopter began to touch down as an airport worker approached her.
“Ms. Sweetcake?” he said.
She finished arranging the items in her bag. “What is it?” she said.
“If you'd follow me, your ride is here.”
Pearly checked all of her pockets—phone, keys, money clip, baton, business cards—and nodded. “Lead the way.”

–----------

“Hi, I'm Dr. Sweetcake!” Pearly shouted to Nuts, reaching out a hand to shake as the helicopter lifted off.
“Okay! I'm uh, well you can call me Nuts!” Nuts shouted.
“Pleased to meet you!” Pearly shouted, shaking his hand.
The three of them shuddered as the helicopter lurched to the left.
“So what do you do, Nuts?!” Pearly shouted.
“I'm an eel fisherman in...” Nuts trailed off. “I was an eel fisherman in London! And yourself?!” he shouted.
“I'm a whale biologist!” Pearly shouted. 
“That's pretty cool!” Nuts shouted.
“Why yes, it is! Thank you!” Pearly shouted.
The script seemed to be working.
“What about your friend?!” Pearly shouted.
“He's a musician!” Nuts shouted. “Not that he's enjoyed much success, and he's tragically without instrument at the moment! Sort of here on a whim!”
Cornelius stared out the window, oblivious.
“Will he play at the party?!” Pearly shouted.
“I don't know! We'd have to ask... er, Sherry?!” Nuts shouted.
“Cheryl!” Pearly shouted. “If he's good I'm sure I can get him on the stage for at least one song!”
“You'd do that for me?!” Nuts shouted. “You don't even know me!”
“Exercising some professional muscle is good for me too!” she shouted. “Let's see what we can do!”
“OK!”

–-----------

The helicopter landed at a currently-defunct naval construction site near the ballpark. “OK,” the pilot said, “don't be too worried that your escort waiting over there is wearing a gas mask. You're just passing through, but he works here every day.”
All three passengers were suddenly more worried.
“So just follow him,” the pilot said.
“Quickly,” he added.
They did. They followed him all the way to the access tunnel at BankBuddy Park, where the guards (FBI? Black suits) checked Pearly's credentials. They asked for Nuts' and Cornelius' credentials, but Nuts shot her a look, and she mentioned she was on the VIP list. 
“These are my research assistants,” she said. “I'm sure you can trust them.”
A small group approached the tunnel opening, led by a Senator that Pearly recognized from TV.
You could almost hear the gears grinding in the guard's head. “Carry on, then,” he said. “The locker room is the third door on the left. Wait there until further instructions.” He turned to focus on the incoming group.
So that's how Pearly, Nuts, and Cornelius got into the park.
Time for the pre-party.

–-------------

BankBuddy, nee AT&T, Park was no stranger to being rented for parties by tech companies. It wasn't cheap, of course—the listed rate was $200,000—and the last-minute nature of this booking had increased that considerably. Fortunately, the weather was lovely and the forecast was clear, so they wouldn't just be limited to the indoor spaces and tents set up on the field and promenade. 
Now, the full capacity of the park was 41,503, but that's if everybody is sitting in the cramped little seats. They'd be serving food, so that wouldn't do. Plus, with heads of state attending, you needed something a little more... regal. With all the other attendees, celebrities and musicians and politicians and chefs and other important people and a random smattering of others, plus all the security, that capacity was going to be severely reduced. 
The field was about 2.5 acres, which would fit about 12,000 people wedding-reception style. Since there was plenty of overflow space, nobody was worried about that being too many, but since it would be best if everybody stayed in the same place—better mingling, easier security, fewer choke points—they'd capped it at 12,000. Plus it meant that you could make sure you could use the luxury boxes just for the Secret Service and other such forces. Cheryl had figured that all out.
Gavriel Vartanian stood in one of these boxes watching the frantic party setup process unfold through binoculars, with what could only be described as a shit-eating grin on his face. A Secret Service team was setting up the room, doing things that Gavriel presumed had names like “sweeping for bugs.” He'd seen enough movies to recognize it. They had people who knew what they were doing consult on those, right?
At any rate, they hadn't found anything. He let the binoculars hang around his neck and examined the room. 
A woman in a black suit (although they were all in black suits) was measuring how far open one of the windows would swing while her partner assembled a sniper rifle. 
A man (in a black suit, naturally) was setting up a surprisingly thick computer with what Gavriel recognized as a satellite antenna attached. He then attached a joystick.
“Do I even want to know?” Gavriel said.
The man gave him a look that was a combination of 'you just asked the IT guy a really stupid question' and 'ask again and I will shoot you', although to be honest, what's the difference? He then returned to his computer.
Gavriel cleared his throat, returned to the window, and picked up a neglected glass of scotch from the nearby table. With his binoculars in one hand and the glass in the other, he surveyed the action on the field, carefully sipping.
The catering crew hadn't bothered to put their uniforms on yet as they hurried about setting up tables and chafing dishes and buffet trays, and a number of... mobile sushi stations, perhaps? Propane grills, attached ovens, boxes of pots and pans and oils and spices. Dry bars. A stage, speakers, microphones, podia, instrument stands. Coolers.
Secret Service agents were positively swarming the place. It was a large space to clear, after all. There were other private security details, some folks with those big FBI jackets talking by one of the entrance tunnels, the Swiss Guard—huh, Cheryl must have invited the Pope—and, perhaps most intimidating of all, plainclothes people simply milling about. 
It was going to be tight, but it looked like everything would be ready on time. Gavriel's grin returned. He finished his scotch and let the binoculars hang again. “Everything in order?” Gavriel said to who he could only assume was the man in charge.
He nodded. “Sadie,” he said to one of the women in the room, “would you please escort Mr. Vartanian to wherever it is he's going?”
Sadie nodded. “Right this way,” she said, and Gavriel followed her out of the room.
“Locker room, please,” he said. “I'd like to check on the guests.”

–-------------

The locker rooms of any major-league sports team are going to be fairly well-appointed, the sort of place that wouldn't feel too off-putting to eat a meal in. Lacquered wood everything, fine tile floor. Naturally, the place had been quite carefully cleaned for the event as well. Really, there were only two things that distinguished it from any of the other locker rooms in the country.
First, it was fully-catered, the sinks repurposed into wet bars—an odd but effective set-up—and there were caterers wandering nimbly around with trays of hor d'ouvres. Caviar and smoked salmon preparations mostly.
Second, the decorations were what one might politely describe as under-the-sea-prom-chic. Everything was blue. There were fish from the ceiling, and those weird shimmering projection lights.
“So,” Pearly said, standing around one of the tables with the blue tablecloths, “so he leaves and then she comes back and shouts 'I loved his boots!'”
Everybody enjoyed a hearty laugh. “OK, OK,” Pearly said. “It's your turn, Nuts.”
Nuts looked around at the assembled masses enjoying mimosas in the Giants' locker room. He sipped his.
“Alright. So, there's two muffins sitting in an oven, and—” 
One of the doors swung open and in stepped a stern woman in a black suit, a non-stern woman in a cream blouse, and Gavriel Vartanian, who looked around and whistled.
“Damn nice job on the decorations, Cheryl,” he said.
The woman in the blouse nodded her acknowledgment.
Suddenly Pearly and Nuts and to a lesser extent Cornelius noted, with some embarrassment, that they were still in streetclothes. Pearly glanced nervously at her boots, and then at the locker that held her bags.
Gavriel laughed and sipped his scotch. “Oh, Pearly—I'm sorry, Ms. Sweetcake, don't we say now—”
“You don't have to pretend to be genteel, it doesn't look right on you,” she said under her breath.
“Ha! Fine, it's not like we haven't seen each other wearing slightly less clothes,” Gavriel said.
“We're diving buddies, you—”
“Fewer,” said Cornelius, looking up from his mimosa.
“Excuse me?” said Gavriel, looking at the mussy-haired, somewhat sickly-looking apparent Brit.
“It's fewer clothes. Sir. Less would be for, er...”
Gavriel arched an eyebrow.
“Well, for 'clothing', sir.”
Gavriel nodded solemnly and took a stride towards their table, secret service and Cheryl in tow. “Well I suppose that's probably correct, Mr...”
“Finch, sir. Cornelius Finch.”
Gavriel chuckled. “Well now isn't that just the name of a—”
“Second string Quidditch captain, probably, yes, I know,” Cornelius sighed.
“I guess you would've heard that one before, being from, uh...” Gavriel searched his mind.
“Eel Pie Island, London,” Nuts said.
“Ah! You must be Mr. Adams,” Gavriel said, grabbing Nuts' hand and shaking it.
“I do prefer to go by Nuts, Mr. Vartanian.”
“And why do they call you that?”
“Well, I went to Catholic school, and there were three other James Francis Xavier's in my class. So we all had to have nicknames, yes? My mother felt that protein was the most important meal of every day, er—” He sipped his mimosa, “the most important part of every meal, rather, so she always sent me off to school with a bag of almonds, and...”
“You are what you eat?” Gavriel said.
“Why yes, sir, very good, sir.”
“Oh, you don't have to be so formal with me, Nuts,” Gavriel said automatically. “After all, you did bring me all of these wonderful, er...” He tried to sweep his torso around until he could reach out a hand that pointed to...
“Eel pies, sir,” Cheryl whispered in his ear.
“Wait, really? They're—”
“Eels are fish,” Cheryl and Pearly said at the same time. 
“I knew that,” Gavriel said, mildly annoyed. “I just didn't know they went in pies. I figured the island was named ironically.”

–----------------------------------------

“Anyway,” Gavriel said, “you all enjoy yourselves. But not too much, hear?” He smiled as if he'd made a joke.
The resulting awkward pause was awkward.
“Well, I'm sure I'll see you around. Pearly,” he said, turning to face her, “let's catch up some time tonight. I'm sure we have things to discuss. Now then.” He turned around and left the way he'd come in, Cheryl and the secret service woman trailing behind him.
“What a charming fellow,” Nuts said.
Pearly rolled her eyes. “You should try working for him.”
“You act like that with your boss?” Cornelius said.
“Well, er, he's more our primary source of funding, not really management per se, more, uh...” Pearly said, trailing off.
“Like you've ever had a boss, Corny,” Nuts said.
“Quiet, you. What's his interest in, ah, what did you call it—” Cornelius said.
“Cetacean intelligence,” Pearly said.
“—right, whale biology. Why's he care?”
“Am I the only person who can remember the word 'cetacean'?” Pearly sighed.
“Evidently,” Nuts said. “But Corny had a good question.”
“Right. So...”

–-----------------

Artificial Intelligence is a poorly named field. Set aside your massive ego for a moment and consider 'intelligence' like any other computational task. Let's say addition. If you were to train rats to run a maze depending on an initial stimulus, in a way where if the stimulus was “2,2” they always ran out of the gate called “4”, you wouldn't call that 'artificial addition'. It wouldn't be spectacularly useful, but it would still be math.
Intelligence is simply a ludicrously complicated form of that. Artificial Intelligence is merely the task of programming trillions of tiny electronic rat mazes (we call them 'transistors' nowadays) to work together and solve complicated problems; to grow, and learn, possibly even love. Ideally with some measure of wisdom built in so that it doesn't, for example, push the big red “MAKE ALL THE FISH DISAPPEAR” button.
So it's really quite straightforward, don't you think? Amazing nobody's done it yet.
One research route that interests a lot of technologists is looking at intelligence in other animals. Dogs have been popular research subjects for the last fifteen years or so; cats for maybe five. They can both add, by the way, but cats aren't domesticated enough to ask for help when they can't solve a problem on their own, so in early tests it seemed like they were stupid. But no, they're just assholes.
Then again, venus fly traps can count to three. Seriously, intelligence is everywhere—get over yourself.
Elephants are another popular research subject. They can recognize themselves in the mirror, they have a fairly sophisticated social life, they might even mourn their dead. They might be the most intelligent non-primate. Don't be mean to elephants. People who are mean to elephants are assholes. You wouldn't want to be an asshole, would you?
Which brings us to cetaceans (we'll skip parrots for now). Dolphins are maybe tied with elephants for non-ape mammalian intelligence. Orcas, which are actually dolphins despite the 'killer whale' moniker, are also pretty damn smart. Actual whales less so—they're also very difficult to study given their size and eating habits. 

–-------------

Gavriel Vartanian was very interested in artificial intelligence. Unlike most such people, he also had an astonishing amount of money. Not that astonishing for the technology sector, I suppose. A mere three billion dollars.
As you may have noticed, Gavriel had a proclivity to spend this not inconsiderable fortune not on his children (of which he had none), his wife or husband (of which he had neither), his pets (one cat named Whiskers—what, Gavriel's human too), but rather on the things that only money could buy. Specifically, things. He had a nice car (Tesla) and another nice car (Diablo); a house by the park, a house by the other park, a house by Lake Tahoe, a bungalow in Nice, and a small flat in Tokyo; a pretty sick gaming set-up in that first house; first editions of Candide and The Prince; he'd recently acquired a stadium; and, I suppose it's time to come around to the point here, he had a nice little research institute in San Rafael.
Pearly didn't run the Marine Intelligence Research Institute, but she may as well have. She was in charge of all the non-business and non-charity functions, which is to say, the actual research. She wasn't studying fish, obviously, but Gavriel was certainly correct that they had something they needed to talk about. What exactly it was, she couldn't figure. She had a suspicion he didn't know either.

What happened?
Who did it?
Why?
Was it 'done' by 'someone'?
Was it an accident?
Aliens?
What if it was aliens?

She certainly didn't want to lose funding. But she needed to schmooze it up tonight just in case. Appearances aside, Gavriel was not an impulsive person—let's just ignore this particular 24-hour period while making that judgment (dude really liked fish)—but there was a niggling doubt in the back of her mind about the future of the Institute.

–---------

“And that,” Pearly said, “is why we don't let geese into the mall any more!”
Everybody laughed.
“But seriously, anyway,” Pearly said, “as I was saying before I was so rudely interrupted with another joke request, that is why Gavriel funds us.”

–---------------

“Yes, mom. No, mom. It was fine, mom. Mom, I'm fine, mom. No, mom, I have not been to California before, mom.”
Hideki was on the phone.
“It is my understanding that the western quarter of the city is flooded, yes, but we are in the southeast, mom. No, mom, I do not know what the dolphins are going to eat moving forward. Please do not go back to the 'dolphins are evil and deserve to die' argument, mom... Because they are not and they do not, mom. No, mom, I do not think the dolphins are behind the fish disappearing.”
Hideki had been on the phone for some time, actually.
“So how is the family doing, mom?” Hideki said, in an attempt to change the subject. “Oh. Well that is... Mmhmm. And are the cousins coping well...? I always told them not to move to Manila, you know. Yes, well, they would not be the first family member who did not listen to me, mom. Yes, mom, I am shocked, there are just a lot of things going on right now, mom. Excuse me for a moment.”
Hideki put his hand over the microphone. “Excuse me, sir,” he said to Jiro, “where in god's name is the alcohol?”
Jiro looked up from the daikon radish he was preparing. “I am running low on cryptic hints to give you right now, so I will simply point. There is a bottle of sake right there.”
Jiro pointed.
“Thank you, sir.” Hideki stepped aside and poured himself a generous portion of the milky beverage and immediately drank half. He coughed.
Never chug sake, kids.
“Thank you for waiting, mom,” Hideki said into the phone. “So other than the disaster in the Philippines, how is the family? ...I see. But you and dad are safe, yes? ...Well, that is what matters. I love you too, mom. I need to continue assisting now, mom. ...Stay safe. Go to the  store before they run out of food, OK? ...OK. Goodbye, mom.”
He hung up and pocketed his phone.
“That seemed fun for you,” Jiro said without looking up from his radish.
Hideki began doing his rounds in the repurposed concession stand kitchen. “Well, filial piety and all that,” he said as he opened a refrigerator. He gently poked at a slab of yellowtail, which was situated near an industrial-sized pack of hamburger buns, and in between the fugu and the red snapper.
“Is it wise,” Hideki said, “to have the fugu so close to the other fish?”
Jiro paused his preparation. “I will confess that the last twenty-four hours have left me less than clear-headed,” he said. “Have I cut into it yet?”
“No sir,” Hideki said, “At least not that I can see.”
“Leave it then,” Jiro said, resuming his work.
Hideki heard a commotion from the ballfield. “Excuse me, sir,” he said. “I am going to go check on that.”
“So long as you are not simply indulging your affection for baseball,” Jiro said.
“One of this days you will have to trust me, you know,” Hideki said as he left.
“And one of these days you will have to learn how to properly barbecue an eel!” Jiro shouted after him.
After a moment's thought, Jiro realized that that day would never come. He checked the rice and moved on to the next radish.

–----------------

“Oh fuck oh fuck oh fuck oh fuuuuuuck me,” said a man in a blue jumpsuit bearing the nametag 'Reyes'. “Fuckity fuck shit hell oh god damn it,” he continued, laying it on rather thick. “This is not!” he said, punctuating it by kicking a concrete wall that had a stream of water flowing from a crack, “supposed!” he said, kicking the wall a second time, “TO HAPPEN!” he said, stomping on the floor this time after a chunk of the wall fell off.
“Fuck my life. STEVE! GET THE FUCK OVER HERE!” he shouted, impotently punching the air.
A younger man in a matching jumpsuit jogged over. “What's up, boss?” Steve said. “I was just cleaning out the bathroom like you asked, nothing—oh, shit. Oh. Fuck.”
They both stared at the wall for a moment.
“Well then,” Steve said.
“Should we?” Reyes said.
“Well they're already here, aren't they?” Steve said.
Reyes sighed. He limply kicked the wall again and another chunk of concrete fell off, increasing the water flow.
He sighed again and grabbed a walkie-talkie from his belt.
“Reyes here, ballpark ground crew, requesting assistance,” he said. “Over.”
“USACE South Pacific Division special dispatch responding, Reyes. What's your emergency?” The transmission crackled a bit through all the concrete.
“We've got a water breach at the ballpark's southeast seawall, over.”
“Please specify which ballpark, over.”
“AT&—er, BankBuddy. Over.”
After a pause, the response came. “Reyes, this is Brigadier General Nguyen. Meet me at second base in ten minutes.”

–----------

Hideki was already jogging down the stadium stairs as the motley crew assembled at second base. A few folks in blue jumpsuits, a few folks in fatigues, what appeared to be a military officer dressed like in the movies and flanked with armed guards. Two people in FBI jackets with dogs. Three people in black suits standing to the side. A team of... it was hard to count as he ran, but maybe six people in plainclothes, and as Hideki vaulted over the wall onto the field he saw that they were far too flabby to be military types.
He was approached by a man in a black suit. “Halt,” he said, reaching into his jacket. Hideki froze.
“I am Jiro Watanabe's assistant, and I was merely concerned about the commotion here,” he said. “Any changes to the serving environment will affect our preparation—”
“Mmm,” the man said. He looked the Japanese man in the chef's outfit up and down. “Stay still, and trust me when I say that if you don't, it won't necessarily be me that stops you.” He pulled a phone from his pocket and clicked a few buttons. “Mmm. Well, Mr. Mori, while you are authorized to be here, I'd recommend you stay away from this situation at the moment.”
Four golf carts full of construction equipment drove past.
“Unless,” he said, indicating the carts, “you know how to use any of that.”
“Perhaps,” Hideki said after considering, “I should stick to my knives. Thank you for not shooting me, sir,” he said, and bowed.
The man chuckled. “First time in America, eh? We don't all have guns—I mean, we all have guns, United States Secret Service, pleasure to meet you—but this ain't Dallas. Or Dallas. Do you need assistance getting back to the kitchen?”
Hideki looked back at the wall. “I suppose any way that would get me back over that wall would be very helpful, thank you,” he said. “Could you tell me what the problem is here, by the way, that these men are solving?”
Two people ran by carrying 50-pound bags of something.
“I'm afraid I can't. Come on, let's get that wall open for you.”

–---------------

“So what y'all are telling me,” Gavriel Vartanian shouted politely into his phone, “is that those waves made it all the way into the bay and all the way down to the ballpark and were fierce enough to break the goddamned seawall?”
He paced the empty storage room.
“Uh-huh. Uh-huh. One sec.” He muted his phone and threw what was left of his scotch onto the ground, glass-first.
“Cheryl!” he shouted. “Another scotch! I'll apologize for my rough tone later!”
He paced some more.
“And bring somebody who has a broom or something!”
He considered what else he had in his hands that he could break.
“And another phone, if that's possible! I know I asked you to pack ten! Thank you!”
The door opened and Cheryl walked in carrying a small tray with a large scotch. “Phone still OK, sir?” she asked.
Gavriel paused, poised to stomp on it, and stepped back. He picked up his phone and nodded. “Thank you, Cheryl,” he said, grabbing the scotch. “Could you leave me to finish this call? Send in the janitor or whatever after.”
“Of course, Gavriel,” Cheryl said, and left, closing the door behind her.
“What did I miss while I had y'all muted?” he said. “Well of course I had you muted, Jeremy. I was busy smashing glass all over the place. I was even about to destroy my phone. ...Yes, of course I'm kidding, Jeremy. I just dropped it on accident. So as you were saying...”

–-------------

“Ok.”
“OK?”
“Yes, Sergeant: 'OK.' It's a word we use when we're starting a conversation or speech even if there's a crisis happening directly behind us,” General Nguyen said. “Onwards to said crisis.”
The surprisingly-quickly-assembled team from the Army Corps of Engineers calmed down a bit as Nguyen shot the sergeant a look. 
“So now that you've crammed it,” he said. The engineers laughed. “Well, I've spoken with the ground crew,” he said, nodding at Reyes, “and we have agreed there's something of an existential problem going on. Now I'm sure you all noticed the thing with the fish and the waves. We're all going to die, et cetera et cetera. But more immediately, the stadium has been damaged, as you can see from the water pooling around your feet.”
Everybody nodded.
“So without further ado, if Colonel Hendrix would please step forward with the SITREP.”
A man in camouflage with the nametag HENDRIX did, indeed, step forward.
“Now we all know the motto here in the Corps,” he said. “'If you need it built or destroyed and it absolutely has to be done today, call us.' That might not be what it says on the seal but we all know it's true. So here's the situation. This seawall is leaking. And literally crumbling. It's just surface damage so far, visibly, but all that means is that the actual damage goes deeper.”
Reyes raised his hand.
“Yes, Mr. Reyes?”
“So I know we've all been saying this a hell of a lot lately, but I'd just like to add that nothing like this has ever happened before. I'm guessing that means it's pretty bad.”
“You've got POTUS flying in in less than two hours and a stadium that might implode any second. Yes, it's bad. And thank you for your contribution, but—”
Nguyen shot the Colonel a “be careful” look.
“—we would be more than happy to have more of your knowledge of the history of this particular corridor, should the need arise.”
He cleared his throat.
“So. We have three ways to approach this, based on three different objectives. One, we can patch it so it survives the day. Two, we can patch it so it survives the week long enough for further study to fix it later. Three, we can fix this fucking seawall right now, and do it right, even if it means building a new seawall in front of the old one, because we're the goddamned Army Corps of Engineers. General?”
Nguyen nodded. “I like option three.” 
“Well then, ladies and gentlemen,” Hendrix said, “I can't but help notice a giant pile of equipment and materiel rapidly being assembled behind you. Goldblum, you're in charge of engineering. Hernandez, you're in charge of logistics. And... well, I've always wanted to say this: Make it so.”

–-------------

“What's the matter, Corny?” Nuts said.
“Oh. Just thinking about what's going on elsewhere,” Cornelius said.
“Alright now, no need to be a paranoid android.”
“A what?” Pearly said.
They were snacking on canapés in the increasingly bustling locker room.
“Depressed robot from a book we like,” Nuts said.
“Oh, uh, the one with the, um, where earth is destr—” Pearly said.
“Let's stop furthering the metaphor, please,” Nuts said.
“It's just, well, even I heard about what happened to the Philippines, and... things aren't supposed to be like this. You're born, you fall in love, travel, meet interesting people...” Cornelius said.
“Work...” Nuts added.
“Some of you, yes. And then you die. And that's if you do everything right and don't randomly get blown to pieces by some bugger with a nasty streak or hit by a lorry.”
“Jesus, who pissed in your corn flakes?” Pearly said.
“My what?” Cornelius said.
“His what?” Nuts said.
“It's, um, a breakfast cereal,” Pearly said.
“I don't even think Corny eats breakfast,” Nuts said.
“It's a figure of speech,” Pearly added.
“That is evident,” Cornelius said. “Anyway, then something like this comes along and it's just... not fair, it's... Look. You're born, and then you live, and then you die. But not like this!” He thumped his drink on the table. Nuts subtly slid it out of his reach.
“He has an artistic temperament,” Nuts stage-whispered to Pearly. “We'll be fine,” Nuts said.
“Well sure, I'm rich. So are you two, by world standards. But I didn't choose my parents and neither did you two. Are we so much better than a family from Guiuan?” Cornelius said.
“Where did you hear...” Nuts said.
“I borrowed somebody's iPhone to check the news. I do know how to use one, you know,” Cornelius said.
“Corny, calm down, please. It's going to be a long day,” Nuts said.
“You know,” Pearly added, “where we are, this might be the safest place on the planet right now. If all of these guys who look like they're from a movie are any indication, the President is coming, and there's nowhere safer than where he is.”
A guy in funny striped pants with an assault rifle walked by.
“And possibly the pope. All I'm saying is, don't panic, Cornelius—”
“I thought you said you'd never read it,” Cornelius said.
“Huh?” Pearly said. “Just stay calm, sure we're lucky, but there's nothing wrong with taking advantage of that from time to time. We couldn't be safer.”
There was the sound of a fork tinkling on a champagne flute, the universal sign for 'shut up.'
And everybody did.
“I don't want anybody to be alarmed,” said a man in a jumpsuit as he set down an empty glass.
Always an auspicious start to a sentence.
“But,” he continued.
Well, here we go, then.
“The explosion you're about to hear is a controlled demolition. Everything is fine.”
Not too bad, as endings go.
“Trust me... I'm an engineer.”
Oh, shit.

–------------

Kablooie! Bam!
Zang!

...'Zang?'
Well, you see, when a heavily-loaded piece of rebar snaps, it goes 'zang!', flying around the room much like a balloon that's been suddenly untied. Except instead of soft rubber, it's a chunk of pointy corrugated steel. 
Colonel Hendrix barely flinched as it embedded itself into the wall two feet above his head.
“Who did the ultrasound?” he asked calmly.
“Sir!” a man said, stepping from behind a wall. “We weren't told to check that part of the wall. I just extrapolated.”
Hendrix sighed. “I don't suppose we have the architect handy,” he said, shaking his head. “We seem to have every other goddamn thing we ask for.”
Reyes peeked his head in. “I wasn't eavesdropping, ok fine I was, but he's dead, Colonel. For quite a while.”
“Damn. Whoever planned this whole... day?... seems to have thought of everything, can't he raise the fucking dead for us too?” Hendrix said.
“That would be Cheryl,” General Nguyen said, stepping into the room, “Vartanian's assistant. Frankly I wouldn't be surprised if she could, but let's stick to the issue at hand, which is patching up this hole we just made. Have we gotten past the decay?”
Reyes and the ultrasound guy peered into the hole.
“Well,” Reyes said, poking around it, “the leak hasn't gotten any larger, and the concrete seems solid enough.”
“I agree,” said the ultrasound guy. “Let me just take another reading real quick. Measure twice, cut once and all, yeah?”

–-------------

Kablooie!
ZangZangZangZangZang...
“FUCK!”
“RUN!”

–-----------

There was a sound like a river running by, which wouldn't be a terribly inaccurate simile really.
The caterers on the field scrambled to get their supplies out of the way of the onrushing water, while men in camouflage rushed to set up a temporary barrier and a cordon around the entrance to the access tunnel.
“No, not the chafing trays, you idiots, get the coolers!” somebody shouted to his staff, as he picked up a one gallon jar of pickled herring and slowly backed away.
Right field began filling up with water. The Giants wouldn't be playing here any time soon, not that they were likely to anyway.
Colonel Hendrix paced calmly in the muck. He pulled out a walkie-talkie and fiddled with the channel settings. “This is Hendrix. How much resin do we have? Over,” he said.
“This is supply. We should have plenty, unless, haha, you just blew a hole in the seaw... just got your text. Ahem. Let me check. Over,” came the voice on the other end.
Hendrix looked around. “Attention!” he shouted towards a group of grunts. “One of you get me an injection pump... or three!” 
“Which kind—” one of them shouted back.
“All of them!”
The men scrambled.
“You!” Hendrix shouted towards another Corpsman. “Get mixing some liquid-setting concrete ASAP!”
The man scampered off. Hendrix's walkie talkie beeped. “Hendrix, over.”
“Supply. We have about three drums, over.”
“Take one of the golf carts and send the drums to right field. Over.”
“Roger wilco.”
Hendrix stood in the rising pool and considered his plan, then nodded. He sloshed over to General Nguyen.
“Sir, I would like to—”
“I heard,” the general said. “Proceed. And let me know when you get the pumps, I'm happy to wear one. I love those things.” He smiled mischievously.
“Reminds you of a flamethrower too, sir?”
Nguyen kept smiling. “Dismissed.”

–---------------

Other than the... minor structural issue... the stadium was experiencing, preparation for the party was proceeding according to schedule. Faster, actually, since Cheryl had artificially rushed the schedule and given the staff a fake starting time. So it was going according to the fake schedule, and quite ahead of the real one.
The Secret Service was more or less set up, the guests (both minor and important) were starting to do more than just trickle in, the food seemed... well, it was a race against the clock, but it seemed to be fine. The stage, all lights and speakers and instrument stands, sitting over the pitcher's mound and pointing outfield, was complete. 
Cheryl had therefore given herself leave to pace the service corridors checking on the logistics. Both locker rooms fully catered and running smoothly, check. President Vargas still arriving in one hour, check. Media green room fully stocked for said President, check: Marlboro Reds, a selection of local microbrews, a book of crossword puzzles, Diet Coke, cable TV of course, and whatever the hell kind of crazy-ass WiFi station the Secret Service had set up. Check.
Left field was ready to serve, but they wouldn't be unboxing the rest of the fish until five. Six-person tables took up most of the space, dotted with serving stations. Cheryl checked the twenty-page seating chart to make sure it agreed with the reality on the field. It did, more or less.
Center field was OK. The presidential tables were taking a little longer to set up, but that was to be expected. Cheryl triple-checked the weather report on her phone. Still all clear. Excellent.
Right field. The less said about right field the better. She mentally moved some of the tables from right field down towards first base. Not perfect, but you plan a dinner party with the venue you have, not the venue you want. She flipped through the seating chart. She started annotating. We'll move the Chancellor's table to the northwest, and... actually, if you just flip the whole thing upside down, it kind of works... and then you mirror it on the north/south axis... which is really just mirroring it on the east/west axis to begin with... there we go. Perfect.
What was next... 

–-------------

Livin' on the road my friend
Was gonna keep you safe and clean
Now you wear your skin like iron
And your breath is hard as kerosene
You weren't your mama's only boy
But her favorite one it seems
She began to cry when you said good-bye
And sank into your dreams...

These lines begin the song “Pancho and Lefty”, by the legendary American songwriter Townes Van Zandt. 
One day, Townes Van Zandt was pulled over by the police. They asked him what he did for a living, and he said 'songwriter'. Their expressions changed into something between pity and contempt, so he decided to clarify. “I wrote that song Pancho and Lefty! You know Pancho and Lefty.”
(This was in Texas, so they did.)
But the kicker is that their police nicknames were Pancho and Lefty. 
Now, we can't be certain how many policemen in Texas had those nicknames at the time, but I'd be willing to guess two. The odds of this happening were appallingly low, and yet, it did happen.
There is a saying in science: Not only is the universe stranger than we imagine, the universe is stranger than we can imagine. And this is a good example.
Pearly Sweetcake was a scientist, and she kinda liked that song, too. Needless to say, she felt that way. And without exception, this was a day she could not possibly imagine.
She'd never ridden in a helicopter before. 
She'd actually never even been to this ballpark.
She'd never been in a men's locker room.
The cumulative amount of time she had spent with British men had effectively doubled.
She'd never eaten escolar before. The server had warned her not to have more than an ounce, which worried her, but it was delicious.
She had certainly never seen a baseball field flooded.
Also there was that whole incident with the fish, she didn't see that coming either, although that was yesterday.
She had been around dynamite, though, so even after the second, unannounced, explosion, she didn't flinch enough to even shake the caviar off her cracker.
Her dining companions were not as lucky.
“What in the everloving bloody shit-eating fuck of a—” Cornelius began, spilling caviar all over himself.
“Chill, Winston,” Nuts said, putting a hand on Cornelius' shoulder, not quite noticing that it was the hand with the caviar appetizer in it.
Cornelius stopped trembling and realized that he would be the last man ever to have this much caviar spilled on him. It felt good, in a way.
Pearly was, however, a bit troubled by all of the shouting going on outside. There was a not-thick line between 'controlled demolition' and 'rolling catastrophe', and she was concerned they were on the wrong side of it.
“Excuse me for a moment, gentlemen,” Pearly said, standing up as she jammed the caviar into her mouth. “Mmmf gn on smfplsi...” she tried to say.
She shrugged and left.

–--------------

Gavriel watched from his press box with a combination of amusement and worry. On the one hand, the demolitions could sure as shit have gone better, and right field was flooded; and to begin with, this wasn't the sort of day where you wanted to have one explosion, not to mention two. On the other hand, Cheryl was already on the infield carefully redoing the seating chart in an adorably exacting manner. On the third hand, watching everybody scramble around like ants with golf carts, just for him, brought a smile to his face.
Not that Gavriel was Zaphod Beeblebrox exactly—he certainly didn't have three arms and two heads—but that doesn't mean he didn't feel like President of the Galaxy sometimes.
The folks in camouflage seemed to have found the machines they were looking for. A handful of the men grabbed the—guns, were they? Some sort of kits—and scrambled around the leak to the grass on top of the corridor along with some piping. They drilled holes into the surface until they were halfway through the tunnel. They began setting up the guns(?) on top of tripods, scarred chemical canisters clipped onto the rear sides, the tripods counterbalanced against the sinking turf.
The remainder of the machines were of a smaller variety and were harnessed to a few of the remaining... troops?
Gavriel hadn't paid much attention to the preferred nomenclature for what he could only assume was the Army Corps of Engineers. He had had, as it were, bigger fish to fry. He giggled at his joke. The women calibrating the sniper rifle glared at him. He giggled harder, putting down the binoculars to stifle it with one hand. The man with the disconcerting laptop/joystick combination glared at him this time.
Gavriel stopped and resumed watching, binoculars against his eyes. There was yelling involved as some kind of sealant and foam flooded through the pipes, with the men on the ground firing something similar to help direct it directly at the damaged wall. They ran out shortly before the chamber was completely filled.

–-------------

“Chop the pipes!” Nguyen shouted to the men on top of the hallway. “Hendrix! Concrete, now!”
Hendrix yelled something incoherent to his staff. They seemed to understand. While he waited, he watched the men on the hallway saw off the pipes they had used, and then watched them collapse the injection pumps they had used alongside. His staff came rushing back with fresh canisters, far less beat-up than the previous ones. “Quickly now,” he said, indicating the pump on his back
Once it was all properly installed, a glorious wave of cement flooded what was left of the chamber, and Hendrix and Nguyen breathed out for what felt like the first time in minutes. 
“We good?” Hendrix asked.
Nguyen looked left, then right, then left again. “We're good.”
After a pause, Hendrix barked out, “Now everybody grab a goddamned beer!”

–------------------

Cheryl supervised the rearrangement of the tables as she shuffled the place cards around in her envelopes. She wore galoshes as she splashed around in the muck, workers with shop-vacs doing what they could to make everything a little bit less wet. Which is to say, vacuuming. As one does.
All the dignitaries go to left field... so we need to swap out those tables... with...
Cheryl stepped over what appeared to be a drowned rat.
“Drowned rat here!” she called out, pointing down. “Thaaaanks!” she said, walking away to continue her quest.
So the dignitaries swap out with... who's in left field... the Brits and uh... Poissonshenski & Hildebrand, and... Sweetcake stays there...
Cheryl grabbed her walkie-talkie. “Gavriel. Cheryl here. Over.”
“What's up? Over,” the voice crackled through.
Cheryl stopped. “Hey!” she shouted. “That table goes over here, not—it goes by shortstop, where it's dry!”
“Sorry,” she said into the walkie-talkie, “the Corpsmen don't have the best sense of aesthetics. Over.”
“Well they play in mud all fucking day,” Gavriel said. Cheryl could hear the clinking of ice on glass through the speaker. “You know the type. What's going on? Over.”
“Just rearranging the seating charts, and I was wondering where you wanted the, ah, let me consult my list... Mayor of Reykjavik, Prime Minister of Iceland... We have some people from Fish and Wildlife, er, just Wildlife Service, I suppose, and such, they're coming.”
“Coming, or here?” Gavirel said.
“They landed six hours ago,” Cheryl said.
“Well,” Gavriel said, “Shit.”

–-----------------------

Three hours later

“So do you really think—” said Konrad Poissonshenski.
“Let's be honest, Kon,” said Clancy Hildebrand. “We aren't waiting in this line for hours.”
The Secret Service continued to swarm around them.
“It's not like they won't let us eat the fish,” she continued.
The men in suits continued to swarm around them. Eventually, they let them into the stadium after a body pat-down.
“Damn unfair of them to care about security,” Clancy said. “Not even the courtesy to give a man a reach-around.”
Kon paused. “You don't even—”
“Respect a Kubrick reference when you get it, Kon,” Clancy said.
“Fair enough,” Konrad said. “I guess.”

–------------

“Clandestine Hildebrand and Konrad Poissonshenski,” Cheryl said. “I won't say I've heard of you, but you're certainly on the list.”
She pointed her pen on her clipboard as if it were a weapon.
“So,” Cheryl said, “how may I help you?”
She tapped her pen, against her clipboard.
Kon and Clancy paused for a moment.
“Well,” Kon said.
“Let me,” Clancy said. “We're here from the Department of Fish and Wi--”
“The Department of, er, Wildlife, We Think,” offered Kon.
Cheryl checked her list, and then checked their identification. “Welcome here,” she said. “You'll be at tables... I'm sorry, this has all changed. You'll have to be seated separately.. tables Thirteen and Eighty-Five, but...”
Cheryl consulted her charts.
“I'm afraid you'll have to sit at adjacent tables,” she said.
Kon made to subtly, but maybe not in a way that would affect the story, grab Clancy's arm.
“I would prefer not t—“ Kon said.
“Well,” Cheryl said, “The charts are quite clear. Why don't you sit here with Messrs. Finch and Adams, Ms. Hildebrand, and you, Ms. Sweetcake, you shall have the honor of sharing a table with, in addition to many Prime Ministers, Gavriel Vartanian himself.”
“I know you're already... acquainted,” Cheryl added.
“That is just not—” Pearly said.
“Some other time, young lady,” Cheryl said.
“I'm at least ten years--” Pearly said.
“What is the problem, ma'am?” Cheryl said.
Somewhere, a dog barked.
“Nothing, Ms... Cheryl,” Pearly said.
“Excellent,” Cheryl said, filling out paperwork on a makeshift desk. “Just sign here.”

–-------------

“Corny, stop fooling around on Grindr,” Nuts said. “It's rude.”
Cornelius looked up. “But we're in San Francisco!” he protested, hoisting a mimosa.
Nuts sighed. “You haven't even introduced yourself to our esteemed colleague here, Ms., er, Clancy, was it? Not to mention everybody else at the table.”
Clandestine sighed. “Clandestine Hildebrand, pleasure to meet you,” she said, reaching out a hand and sighing again. “Department of, ah, Wildlife, I Suppose. ...We're still reworking the name.”
Cornelius couldn't quite tell if she had actually rolled her eyes or just implied it.
He reached out to take her hand. “The pleasure is all mine, I'm sure,” he said, pocketing his phone as he did so. His phone chirped. “Ah, one second,” he said, returning to his phone. He giggled.
“Corny! Cut it out! The President is here, the Pope is here! It's just downright rude,” Nuts said.
“I'm chatting with one of these Secret Service fellows,” Corny said, giggling again.
“Now if there's one sort of bloke who should not be—” Nuts said, only to be interrupted by somebody tapping on a microphone.
The crowd, for the most part, went silent.
“You shouldn't tap on microphones,” Cornelius said under his breath. “Hurts the mechanism. Monsters, all of you. Now then, let's all listen to the nice equipment-wrecker, shall we?”

–------------

“Ladies and gentlemen of the jury,” Gavriel began from the stage in center field, “I suppose you wonder why I gathered you here today.” He had a sip of scotch. “I imagine that the mixed metaphor just then was terrible, you'll have to forgive me as I've been drinking since nine a.m. and did not in fact write a speech or for that matter eat breakfast.
“As you know, there are no more fish. This tragic event will, uh, decimate the population—maybe quite literally—you know, with the dictionary saying—”
Gavriel held his finger to his ear.
“I've been informed not to use the dictionary for rhetorical arguments. Fair enough. Anyway, this is awful, so let's all enjoy ourselves. Cheers!”
A roar failed to come up from the crowd.
“I paid for this microphone, the least you can do is laugh,” Gavriel said.
A polite laugh came from some of the assembled.
“Oh for fuck's sake—”
Gavriel held his finger to his ear.
“I've been informed not to quote Reagan or cuss,” Gavriel said. “With all that having been said, who wants some fish? We've got one of the premier sushi chefs in the world by third base there,” he said, pointing, “and a series of bands that I'm sure everybody will enjoy starting any minute now.”
Gavriel held his finger to his ear.
“I've been informed that they will be starting in about twenty minutes, beginning with, ah, well,” he had a sip of scotch, pushed a few icons on his phone, and cleared his throat. “Painful Paintbrush,” he said. He put the microphone on its stand. “What a great name for what I can only assume will be a great band. Painful Paintbrush, everyone!”
Gavriel raised his glass and, for what we can only presume are many and varying reasons, clapped.
Painful Paintbrush made their way to the stage with stadium staff towing their equipment.

–--------------

“So there you are, in a bar, there's a band playing,” said the singer of Painful Paintbrush. “It's not super important what their name is.” She paused to quietly re-tune her guitar.
“Well, OK, I guess the name of the band is The Good-For-Nothings. So you're in a bar, and there's that band playing, they're playing a song called Bottom of the Well. And you're drinking, and looking around. But you're alone, you've got a glass of wine, and it's Tuesday, so what the hell are you doing there? That's the pervasive emotion at least. Anyway, this is a song about a song about Myanmar.”
And they started playing.

Forty kinds of whiskey on the shelf
A portrait of Babe Ruth crossing himself
Pinot Noir
One guitar
Rock star
And a song about Myanmar
You know the song, you sing along
It's “Bottom Of The Well”
Your voice joins the throng, makes you feel strong
Like an angel straight from Hell

“So,”  Konrad Poissonshenski said, “Painful Paintbrush, eh? Good band.”
Gavriel arched his eyebrows. “Well, I did invite them to play,” he said.
“They're quite good,” said Pearly.
“Oh, of course,” said Konrad. “Name's Konrad, by the way. You can call me Kon, by the way. Nice to meet you all. Department of... Wildlife, I Think. We're working on the name still.”
“Ainsley Harper,” said a man in a rumpled suit. “Is that 'Konrad' with a K or a C?”
“You can hear the difference?” Konrad said.
“Of course,” said the man in the rumpled suit. “I'm English.”
“Well it's with a K. Pleasure to meet you, Mister Harper.”
“That's Sir Harper, actually,” said the man in the rumpled suit.
“Sorry for the insult, I guess, but—” Konrad said.
“Prime Minister Sir Harper, actually,” he said with a slight bow of the head.
“Oh,” Konrad said. He took a sip of champagne. “You. At any rate,” he said.
Konrad made a point of eating a piece of yellowtail nigiri before continuing.
“I recall when I was a young—” Harper said.
“Anyway,” Konrad said, still chewing on the nigiri, “this song reminds me of something. Did you know that angels are actually supposed to be terrifying?”
He swallowed.
“Think about it. Uriel with his flaming sword.” He sipped again. “Ezekiel's revelation. The two angels who rained fire and brimstone on Sodom and Gomorrah. Even Satan, in Milton's version of things, he used to be an angel. An angel straight from Hell, to quote the song.”
Prime Minister Harper choked on his butterfish fillet. “I am a proud Anglican, sir. If any of this is true, sir, I will have my government invest heavily in edible hats,” he said.
Konrad rolled his eyes. “Read your holy book some time. Sir.” He ate another piece of sushi. “You might learn something.”
He swallowed.
Looking Prime Minister Harper in the eyes, Konrad said, “It does get a little silly in the end, you have to admit.”

–----------

“Well, I never,” said Prime Minister Harper.
Nuts had been eavesdropping from the next table over. “Oh, go back to Oxbridge, you pompous ass!” he said.
Harper cleared his throat and straightened his tie. “I've endured Question Time, lads,” he said, “don't you think you can rattle me, either of you. James F.X. Adams,” Harper said, “your parents must be—I'm sorry,” he chuckled, “your late parents must be so pleased that you took the nickname Nuts while continuing on the family business of... eel fishery. And as for you, Mr. Finch,” he said to Cornelius, “Cornelius Finch, of the Liverpool Finches. Ah, the philandering son who thinks he's a musician,” he said, raising a glass. “Cheers! To excellent citizens of the United Kingdom!”
“Fuck off, Tory scum,” Cornelius growled.
“What are you going to do to me, sing a song at—”
There was a general quieting as Gavriel Vartanian tinked his fork against his glass.
“My apologies, everybody,” Gavriel said while standing up, swaying just a little, his voice broadcasting over the PA, “it's just that I'd been informed hours ago that Mr. Finch here would be performing a set under the name of, er,” and he pressed his finger to his ear, “'When Sheep Were Nervous'. ...He's Scottish, or something, I guess. But I just remembered. Cheryl, can we move back, uh...” Gavriel said, finger to his ear again, “What the hell is an Arcade Fire? Push them back a set, make room for Finch here. ...No, I don't know how long he'll be—Cheryl, I barely even know what a Grammy is, and we need room...”
Gavriel stopped.
“This thing's still on, isn't it,” he said.
The folks around the table nodded.
“Well, shit,” Gavriel said, trying out buttons on his headset as his voice ricocheted throughout the stadium. “Nod when you can't hear me.”

–----------------

It is a little known fact that there is, in fact, a correct way to hang toilet paper.
The debate has raged for decades, if not centuries, about whether the paper should be over the roll in a clockwise manner or under the roll in a counterclockwise manner, with arguments on both sides. But the simple fact is that it should go over the roll in a clockwise manner, unless you both have a pet and lack a bathroom door. 
The reasoning is quite simple. The original patent application clearly shows this to be the correct way to hang toilet paper. Also, another little known fact—toilet paper was at one point patented!
It is said that you can patent just about anything these days, and that's true, although this one was awarded in 1891, so it's been true for a while.
The question gets slightly more complicated when the roll is hung with the tube facing perpendicular from the wall, often in your more industrial or institutional situations, such as a school or prison or library, or, to wit, a baseball stadium.

–---------------

Konrad Poissonshenski went to take, for lack of a better term, a shit. He noticed that the toilet paper was one of those big single-ply rolls inside of a black plastic torus. He pondered this for a moment. There was no over or under, per se, just clockwise and counterclockwise. So which would be correct? He idly supposed that clockwise was the right way to do it. 
It's amazing what a man gets up to thinking about when trying to save battery power on his smartphone.
It is interesting to note that this was one of the rare situations where Konrad preferred to use precedent and empiricism, while Clandestine preferred to use her gut. She was an under person, you see. They both suspected that gender might have been involved, though neither had thus far had the courage to really broach the topic.
Fortunately, they had separate toilets at the office, so it only really came up during long car rides to obscure rural locations, as they traveled the country investigating strange, one might even say paranormal, incidents involving wildlife and, up until quite recently, fish.
This was probably their last assignment involving fish. A shame, really. Always more enigmatic creatures than your average invisible moose or time-traveling pheasant, which came up more often than you might think.
Ah, well. Konrad was done now and it was time to get back to the recruiting.

–------------

“A word, please, Clancy?” Konrad said, leaning over and speaking just a touch too forcefully near her ear.
Clandestine Hildebrand blinked slowly and put down her chopsticks. “Of course, Kon,” she said. They walked slightly into the sodden right field. “Yes, Kon?” she said.
“How many are we provisioned for?” Kon said.
Clancy pulled out a smartphone for a moment. “Four, plus the skeleton crew,” she said.
“I like that sassy little Brit you found,” he said. “The fisherman.”
“Fond of the biologist myself,” she said.
“Might be a harder sell, seeing as she still has a job...” he said.
“Couldn't hurt to ask.” She put her smartphone away. “Anybody with martial experience?”

–-----------

The table had taken to standing and mingling.
“Really,” said a man in an ill-fitting suit that just screamed 'scientist', “rays are fish? I had no idea.”
Pearly shook her head sadly. “I suppose it doesn't matter anymore, no more than if brontosauruses are real or Pluto is a planet,” she said.
The man got red in the face. “Some of us care very much about that last one,” he said, throwing a drink at her and reaching out drunkenly.
Pearly grabbed his wrist, swept his knees, and effortlessly threw him to the ground. He rolled away and groaned.
“As I was saying,” Pearly said, straightening her dress, “not a lot of people know the extent of the Craniata clade...”

–---------

“OK, I'm sold on the biologist,” Kon said.

–-----------

Cornelius Finch had taken the stage in front of the largest audience he'd ever stood before, surely the most important audience he'd ever stood before. Somebody had equipped him with a fairly nice chrome-front Johnson resonator, and he'd acquired a pair of sweat bands from the locker room. The latter was of course relevant due to the stage lights and sheer nerves.
Cornelius wiped his forehead as he gazed at the crowd assembled on the three-quarters of the field that was still dry. He could see Nuts and Pearly if he sort of squinted... Harper must have moved... There were men in whatever it was the Sheikhs wore, men in whatever it was the Sikhs wore... Of course he saw the stern-looking women and men in plain black suits, who seemed to be the only strangers paying him even a modicum of attention.
They alone would have been the biggest audience he ever had. He wiped his forehead again as he gave the guitar a quick last-second tune-up and approached the mic. He cleared his throat.
“Hi there,” he said. “My name is Cornelius Finch, and we...” he gestured around the empty stage—“are When Sheep Were Nervous. Pleasure to be here in lovely, uh,” he said, and plugged in the guitar to test out the volume and wah-wah pedal, “San Francisco, shame the circumstances couldn't have been better...” He trailed off.
“But I trust we're all enjoying the fish!” he said, his voice cracking at the end as the overearnest grimace cracked with it. He took a sip from a nearby bottle of water.
He played a few chords and fiddled with some knobs. “Without further ado, I suppose,” he said, and with a deep breath, began.
“So, we've all seen a professional brain-care specialist at one point or another, yes? I see you watching, Secret Service,” he said, suddenly standing more confidently with a loose grip on the mic. “I'll not make you move your hands unless you have to, so just go ahead and only raise your hand if you've not had a psychiatric evaluation.” 
Some of the crowd began to pay attention as the folks in plain black suits began to shoot each other meaningful looks.
“I mean,” Cornelius said, “recurring, right? Probably especially after—OK, well, let's try another one. I see I have more of you with me now. Let's not move on just yet actually,” he said, leaning into the mic, “who among the people newly listening have never had a psychiatric evaluation? Remember, only raise your hand if you've not!”
The more expensive the suit, the more likely the person inside of it was to hesitate nervously before raising their hand.

–-----------

Up in a luxury booth, Prime Minister Harper and Gavriel Vartanian watched through binoculars.
“What,” Harper said, putting down the binoculars and finishing a slug of scotch, “in heaven's name,” he said, chasing with soda water, “is he doing?”
Gavriel continued grinning and glanced over for a moment, both hands on the binoculars. “Both hands down for you, eh?” he said, raising his eyebrows.
Harper's eyes widened for a moment. “Erm, ahem,” he said, raising his hand.
 “Well,” Gavriel said, turning back to watch the stage. “That'd explain a thing or two, now wouldn't it?” He chuckled. “Perhaps you should look into getting one.”
Had he been drinking something, Harper would have gagged on it. “Excuse me?” he said.
“Oh, nothing,” Gavriel said.
“I don't suppose this is being recorded,” Harper said, returning to his binoculars.
Gavriel surveyed the room full of various shades of national and international security. “Oh, surely not, Sir,” he said.
“I don't suppose this has anything to do with that bill, the—what did you call it?—'galaxy-eating monstrosity of a surveillance bill' that I signed last year,” Harper said.
“Surely not, Sir.”
“If you're trying to blackmail me, I assure you—”
Gavriel took a hand off his binoculars and shooshed the Prime Minister. “Don't talk during the show. ...Sir.” 

–--------------

“Now,” Cornelius continued, carrying the microphone around the stage now, cables trailing behind him, “I'm not going to ask who here has killed anybody, but just so nobody gets nervous let me raise my hand right here and say that I haven't.” He raised the microphone to a smattering of applause and some whoops.
Also, according to the feeling in his pocket and the sounds from his stage monitor, he'd gotten at least six Grindr messages in the last thirty seconds. That would make a good segue.
He chuckled. “I can't help but notice that a few people listening are gay,” he said. “Well, good news! This one's about psychotherapy and Norman Bates. It's called Attorney-Client Privilege.” He strode over to reattach the microphone to the stand and began.

I will run out of petrol
I will call Triple-A
I'll be towed past the meadow
It's Whitsunday

Many miles from the ghetto
A bed to keep anxiety at bay
I'll see a high-flying kestrel
The Bates Motel, I guess it sounds OK

“So what did you say?” she'll ask
“Room two sounds fine,” I'll say I said
Wearing a blank-faced mask
Like a mask of the dead

“Would you like some dinner?
I have some leftover sandwiches.”
Feeling like a loser not a winner
I'll take him up on his

The bell will ring, and Bates will leave
I'll never sing, I'll never grieve
Take one look through the door
See what's lifted from the cot
See just what I have paid for
Find out who I'm not

“So what did you say?” she'll ask
“Room two sounds fine,” I'll say I said
Wearing a blank-faced mask
Like a mask of the dead

“So what did you say?” she'll ask

“I've seen the way you clean the grout,
This bathroom must be filthy.”

“That would explain the acting-out,
For now I say, Not Guilty.”

–------------

Shad Hutson sat at a small desk in one of the media booths, a small plate of uneaten fish tucked off into a far corner. A laptop sat in front of him, with a pair of headphones snaking their way into his head. He had, so far, written:

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES — Following the events of yesterday morning, the world's elite have gathered at the recently-renamed BankBuddy Park in San Francisco for what the organizer, eccentric American businessman Gavriel Vartanian, describes as “the planet's last fish dinner.”
“It's going to be freaking awesome,” Vartanian added in a subsequent interview, although he didn't say 'freaking'.
The field is arranged as resembling a wedding reception, with guests sorted according to which strangers would have interesting and/or important conversations. It has been described by an anonymous but highly-placed source in the ad-hoc planning committee as 'Vartanian's first foray into international politics.'
The spontaneous flooding of right field has resulted in unplanned situations such as Prime Minister Harper being seated within shouting distance of two apparently staunch Labour supporters with apparently little to lose; this reporter can confirm that shouts could easily carry back and forth between the two tables.

Shad frowned. He'd barely had a thing to eat since the flight, but he wasn't exactly hungry either. Intellectually, he knew he needed to eat, and he also recognized that this was his last chance to feasibly eat anything fish-like other than salmon jerky, but... well, these things happened.
He choked down a piece of sushi. Yellowtail, it seemed. Very, very good. Probably would have been even better if he'd eaten it right when it was made. Perhaps he could get more after his deadline passed. 
He'd not bothered to pick up any smoked salmon, even though growing up in Belfast he had a weakness for it; too easy to get in the coming days compared to all the fresh dishes tonight. Being as hungry as he was, though, he now regretted this decision, especially since the BBC was not exactly known for lavish salaries, and there was no doubt the price would skyrocket.
Oh, well. Shad poked at some sort of catfish, lightly blackened, and tried some. Other than the bone he ended up gagging on, it too was very good.
He briefly wondered what they were serving all the vegetarians who must be in attendance. Presumably somebodywould have thought of something. He added a piece to the story:

[INSERT FILLER/INTEREST PIECE ABOUT KINDS OF FOOD, VARIOUS ORIGINS]
Over these foods, and a rather plentiful supply of alcohol, we find: world leaders of all stripes, as well as fishermen and quay-workers, boaters, high-profile victims, people who just caught Vartanian's fancy (Yr Hmbl Crrspndnt), and who knows whom else, setting the stage for what will surely be strangest and perhaps most important international negotiations since the Potsdam Conference.
As of press time, the host had not returned calls about what vegetarian dishes were available for those so inclined, nor what sort of agreements were being hashed out.

(A funny bunch, print journalists. They write something like that and you always assume they've asked to begin with. It's a good trick.)

Fifteen minutes until he had to hit send. Using another journalists' trick, he picked a few agencies at random and pulled up their web sites. NHK, ah... Der Spiegel... and The Norwegian Local, why not.

To summarize the most recent breaking news:
As reported by NHK: Chefs around Japan are scrambling to collect the remaining fresh fish. Meanwhile, superstar Jiro Watanabe has been summoned to San Francisco by none other than the American President. The water disturbances have been especially damaging on the East coast, leading to a re-ignition of the disaster area in Fukushima, causing the emergency evacuation of the entire prefecture. Kyoto, already filled with coastal refugees, is having severe difficulties accommodating the entire two million residents. Many agricultural regions have been inundated with sea water, and while the stored grain supply is not in immediate danger, the loss of our country's primary protein source as well as so much farmland is cause for immediate concern. The leaders of the Agriculture Ministry are currently at the event in San Francisco.
According to Der Spiegel, the coastal regions of Germany—the European Union's economic engine—are generally safe, and the country is not in a state of panic due to the general geographic layout. However, with refugees from Holland flooding into Düsseldorf and, to a lesser extent, places like Brussels, the larger region is experiencing stresses it has not experienced in decades, and the major rail lines have all but ceased service. The already-restless Turkish minority is anxious to contact and, if possible, bring in their relatives from their severely storm-wracked homeland, inflaming ethnic tensions in the border city of Passau and many small towns spanning the country's center, from Munich to Berlin.
In lighter news, The Norwegian Local is reporting that many residents are concerned that their supply of lutefisk could run out in sixteen to twenty-four months if they do not begin drying more cod immediately. This threatens to reignite the infamous Cod Wars with Iceland. Iceland could not be reached for comment.

He filled in the stand-in comment about what fish they were serving by picking fish at random, assuming they would all be present, but made sure the majority of them were preparations he had actually seen and making sure to use “sources report” and other wonderful reporting language for the rest, and...
Send! Two minutes to spare.
Shad sat back and sighed, then started his timer for his next update in 90 minutes. He finished his yellowtail, packed up his laptop, and headed downstairs for some real food for once, and of course a Pimm's Cup or some such, because fish. He was sure he could find one somewhere, maybe overhear some gossip while he was at it. Shad set his rather well hidden multidirectional lapel mic's to record.

This is why you shouldn't trust breaking news, by the way.

–---------------

“So,” Cornelius said, “I've got a special song, I guess, that I'd like to play.” He tromped his way around the stage, looking at the crowd from every angle. “We all know the reason for the season. Well, not because all the fish vanished, which is why we're here, wor, but because it's so close to the solstice, aye? Apologies in advance to those offended, but to be completely frank I don't right give a fuck. So without further ado...”
And he began.
I'm a doctor don't you know
Because Lord Jesus told me so
He showed me how to heal the sick
And showed me that bankers are dicks
He was flipping tables before it was cool
Because folks wouldn't follow God's rule
Hanging with whores, washing feet nude and bare
Historians aren't even sure he was there
At supper he said one of you will betray me
And everyone thought well, that Judas, maybe?
Thirty pieces of silver was all it took
To capture that God like a queen to a rook
Somebody tried to defend with a sword,
“No, put it away,” no's an interesting word
At the end of the ordeal he had a cross to bear
They anointed him with oil in his hair
A crown of thorns they put on his head
And nailed him to a tree, and left him for dead
“My Lord, forgive them, they know not what they do,”
And then when it was over, the cleverest few
Locked him in a tomb and slid on the boulder
Probably cried on each other's shoulder
And then three days later, a marvelous thing,
The goddamned phone began to ring
And he said “Dude. Can you let me out?”
All of the people began to scream and shout
They removed the boulder and stood in amazement
(Because Jews were lacking in good entertainment)
And as he emerged, ascended to the skies,
He said “See ya later!” to the 11 other guys
“I'll be back when I can, got some errands to run,”
And he flew straight up to the moon and the sun
But right before leaving, though you may not believe it
He said “Salvation is possible, you don't even have to achieve it
Just swear on your life that I'm the son of God
And you'll be like a child that is spared from the rod.”
So upon this solstice, may peace be upon you
And ideally a boy, dog, or cat laying on you.

There was little applause, as everybody looked at the Pope, who shrugged.

“Thank you! I've been Cornelius Finch, and I can imagine that I'll continue to be Cornelius Finch by all rights. Peace be upon you, may the Force be with you, happy Hannukah, merry Mithras, something about Christmas I suppose but by rights I'll never understand why Easter isn't the real high holiday, and a Festivus for the rest of us!”
And with that Cornelius walked off stage, unslung his guitar, and walked back to his seat.


–-------------

They were still in the observation booth, and standing on a nice throw rug. Gavriel was still looking through the binoculars, and Sir Harper was looking at the floor.
“What on earth are you wearing, if I may?” (Sir) Prime Minister Harper said.
“Well where I came from,” Gavriel said, “it was a measure of disrespect to keep wearing your boots inside, owing to that your boots were completely covered in cow shit.”
He let the binoculars hang from his neck.
“But once we moved beyond the cow shit,” he continued, “it became a measure of social and financial showmanship. You could afford shitless boots, the kind that won't fuck up a rug, well that meant you could afford my family's services. This was all before credit checks, of course.”
He looked down.
“So yeah, these are dress boots, and the rug you're standing on is mine, by the way, in case you were worried about my boots fucking it up,” Gavriel finished. “Just to be crystal clear.”
Harper stepped off the rug. “Now tell me,” he said with a sip of scotch, “who's Crystal, and does she have a sister?” He chuckled.
“Just the sort of humor I was hoping for from an Eton man, Prime Minister,” Gavriel said, pulling the binoculars back up to examine the festivities. “Or is it humo-u-r?” he said, glancing at the stage and stressing the 'u'.

–--------

The Arcade Fire was on stage. They were playing pieces from their new album, yet to be released.

Why'd you have to call the police
Why'd they use the luminol...

It was an album that came from a dark place. They were still working out the lyrics.

–--------

Catherine Peoples, Katie for short but her friends call her Kat, was on a boat moored somewhere in the Sacramento River Delta.
Now that the Delta Smelt was gone, you were allowed to do that.
She'd always wanted to do it, so she did do it.
Besides, she had a delivery to make.
Some folks with beards were unloading some crates of, let's call it oregano, that's what it said on the crates at any rate. She was supervising the unloading, and tending to the boat, and, as one of the few Californians with a concealed carry license, she had her trusty pistol tucked in her underarm holster. For Kat Peoples, all was right in the world.
For Kat Peoples, fish were always just a protein source anyway. There was other meat anyway, or, in a pinch, there was always hummus.
It's amazing what you can do with cans, especially on a long voyage. You know, like make hummus, or keep dogs from smelling certain things that may or may not be in a crate.
“Hey! Careful with that!” she called out to one of the, ah, let's go with 'hippies' who was struggling with a crate while on the pier. “Oh, never mind, you've already paid. You do you.” She patted her right breast pocket to make sure the cash was still there, and then she got a phone call. She answered it with a withering glare.
“I'm a little busy right now, Konrad,” she said. “Uh huh. Uh huh... Really?... That's what you're giving me to—don't interrupt me! ...well I was going to say 'work with'. And I'm still going to say it. 'Work with'. You got the per diem's and the boat, right? Toss in a little extra, with that kind of crew. ….You haven't even confirmed? Call me back when I'm not supervising a delivery and you have actual news.”
She hung up.
“Hey!” she said to a hippie with a crate of garbanzo beans. “That's not yours! Put it back now!”
He shrugged and whipped his dreadlocks around a little.
“Do it now,” she said, pulling out her gun. “You wouldn't like me when I'm angry.”
The hippie scurried back to the boat possibly faster than any hippie had ever scurried before, which while not exactly setting a land-speed record for scurrying was still fairly fast.
“Thanks!” she yelled, putting the weapon back.

–-----------

Konrad put his phone back in his pocket and walked to the table. “May I speak to you for a moment, Mr. Adams, er, Nuts?” he said. “Over here, ideally.” Konrad gestured to the area where he'd been talking to Clandestine.
Nuts, poised to place most of a trout fillet in his mouth, opted for a small bite, nodded, and stood up while he chewed. “I don't see why not, Mr., uh,” he said, picking up his whiskey.
“Poissonshenski,” Konrad said.
“You must admit,” Nuts said as he followed Konrad to said area, “that's a bit of an odd name.”
“It used to be hyphenated, many generations ago. French-Polish. I, personally, think Clandestine Hildebrand is way weirder, but that's probably just me,” Konrad said.
They arrived. “So how can I help you?” Nuts said.
Konrad cleared his throat and shuffled his feet a bit. “Well,” he said, “as you know, me and Clandestine work for... Still working on the name, but Fish and Wildlife. The Department, not the magazine.”
“Mm-hmm.”
“Now, what I'm about to tell you is highly classified. You wouldn't be here if you hadn't passed a background check—don't ask me how they did those so quickly for some of you guys—but, well, as you know there are cameras everywhere in London. And all you seem to do is fish for eels and drink Jameson.”
“To be fair, there is some cooking involved.”
“Yes yes. Anyway, how'd you like to go on a little adventure...”
*	*	*
“Do all of you people have weird names?!” Nuts said upon learning who would be captaining the ship.
“Says the guy who goes by 'Nuts',” Konrad said.
“My name is James. My nickname is Nuts. She's just named Kat—”
“Catherine,” Konrad cut in.
“Peoples!”
“Yeah, we think it's an alias,” Konrad said.
“So let me get this straight. You're a man and a woman with strange names who investigate...” Nuts said, sipping his whiskey.
“Weird, possibly scientific or paranormal incidents involving—” Konrad said.
“Fish,” Nuts finished. “A bit on the nose, don't you think?”
“The Secretary has a sense of humor.”
“Ever find anything?” Nuts said.
Konrad chuckled. “Of course not. So are you in or are you out?”
Nuts finished his drink. “Fuck it, I've got nothing better to do any more. What's the pay?

–-------------

“So let me get this fucking straight,” Pearly said. “You're a woman and a man with messed up names who—”
“Bu- bu- bu- bu- bup,” Clandestine said. “You can go over that all with Mr. Adams in a moment.”
“Who?” Pearly said.
Clandestine sighed. “Nuts.”
“Him?” Pearly looked over at the young fisherman. “What is he, a good sailor or something?”
“Or something,” Clandestine said.
“I'm not sure this sounds like a good idea,” Pearly said. But then again, I did promise Johnny Cash to follow destiny when it calls...

–---------------

Hideki was watching the Rockies play the Braves while he took a little beer and baseball break. The bar phone rang and the bartender picked it up.
“St. Francis Hospital, you kill 'em, we chill 'em, how can we help today?” he said. “Ah, hello, Mr. agent sir. ...Ah, little Japanese guy? Yeah, I got 'im... Understood.” He leaned over the bar towards Hideki. “Alright, buddy, you're going to finish that and then you're gonna high-tail it back to talk to your boss-man, got it?”
Hideki inwardly rolled his eyes as his features remained placid. “I understand,” he said, silently adding, I guess.
*	*	*
“So in other words, if I am to understand Agent Poissonshenski here correctly,” Jiro said with a slight bow, “as well as Ms. Hildebrand—”
“Agent,” Clandestine said.
“My apologies,” Jiro continued, “they are in need of a galley cook with steady hands for the peculiar mission they have just described. I will add that I need to begin spending more time training Hiroyuki in whatever remains of the art of sushi, or perhaps it is fortune telling me it is time to retire. In essence, Hideki, you should feel no more obligation to me, if you are willing to follow this course.”
Hideki stood stunned. “But Master Watanabe—”
“Every hero must go on a quest. I believe this may be yours.”
Hideki turned to the agents. “...can I bring my knives?”

–-------

Colonel Hendrix was on the walkie with General Nguyen.
“Yes, sir. Understood, sir. Over.” He turned to Poissonshenski and Hildebrand. “I suppose I'm in.”
Hildebrand looked at Poissonshenski. “Ok, that one was easy,” she said.
Poissonshenski nodded, fished his phone out of his pocket, and pushed a few buttons. “Hey there, Kat...”

And so we end Part One


Part Two
Konrad Poissonshenski stood at the pier on the East side of Yerba Buena Island in the San Francisco bay. One of those fun little quirks that you'll find all over America, the acquisition of Yerba Buena went something like this:
Native Americans: You can't take that, it's our sacred island.
American Settlers: Well, this is our sacred navy. But hey—we'll name it after your sacred herb if you'd like!
But we digress. Konrad stood at the pier, assessing the United States Coast Guard Cutter (USCGC) Razorfish, examining the new ship's motto somebody had stenciled on the side:
IPSE SE NIHIL SCIRE ID UNUM SCIAT
“One of your boys, Captain Peoples?” he called out to the woman who stood along the gunwales in aviators and a green jumpsuit, supervising the loading of cargo.
“Hideki suggested it,” she called back. “Sharp guy.”
Konrad looked around at the fuel, motor, and armament modifications and whistled. “Sharp boat. I trust you like the changes. Oh, one last thing, you should get somebody to paint over the 'USCGC' part over there.” He nodded towards the prow.
A man in a green jumpsuit carrying a box stenciled GARBANZO BEANS bumped into Konrad. “Fucking fed,” he spat. He walked up the gangplank and into the hold.
“Hey!” Konrad yelled back. “Who do you think got you this thing in the first place, the great pumpkin?”
Kat looked up and down the deck. “Where the hell did you get this, anyway? Looks like she just came out of mothballs.”
“Hey, she floats,” he said. “I think you'll be pleasantly surprised.”
A large striped cat came prowling out of the hold and onto the base proper.
Konrad slowly stepped back. “Was that a tiger?!” he yelled.
“Hey, you're the one that said 'no smuggling',” Kat said causually.
“Well what the hell am I supposed to do with it?!”
“You're the guy from Wildlife, man. Your problem now.”
Konrad pulled out his phone and ran off after it, cursing under his breath.
*	*	*
A few moments later, No-Longer-Apprentice Chef Hideki Mori, Army Corps of Engineers Colonel John Hendrix, Former Fisherman James 'Nuts' Adams, and Whale Biologist Pearly Sweetcake hiked out from the base in identical jumpsuits carrying large backpacks. Captain Peoples nodded her assent for them to board the Razorfish. With a fresh cigarette hanging from her lips, she called out, “I hope you boys like hummus!”

–-------------

TWO WEEKS EARLIER...
Pearly was on the phone with her mother as she got her papers in order at the Marine Research Intellgence Institute, so that Karen would have everything she needed to run the Institute in Pearly's absence. She had the phone on a headset.
“Yes I'll be fine, mom... Just a little research voyage is all, mom... I'll be with the coast guard...”
She dumped a thick binder labeled The Care and Feeding of Research Dolphins into a Banker's Box labeled 'KAREN' and kept riffling through the filing cabinet. Next up was Zen and the Art of Non-Human Intelligence Research, which went into a separate, waterproof box.
“Well I don't know where exactly, but...”
A Patrick O'Brien novel compendium went into the waterproof box.
“Yeah, the Pacific, that whole area. The ultimate goal... No, they haven't given me the whole plan yet...”
An iPod labeled 'Shit Dolphins Like' and another labeled 'Shit Dolphins Sound Like' went into Karen's box. A copy of the latter went into the waterproof box. Pearly hesitated briefly before she put half an armful of iPods and chargers into the waterproof box, too.
“Of course I trust them, I told you, it's with the Department of... Wildlife, and the Coast Guard... we'll be perfectly safe...”
She put two laptops plus accessories into the waterproof box, sealed it, wrote RAZORFISH on the side, and pulled out a new one.
“Well eventually we will be headed to Midway, I know that much... Haha, oh, mom, I sure hope we won't have any battles too!...”
Hmm, a copy of the Admiralty and Maritime Law Guide, come to think of it. Karen got the keys to all the desktops and research equipment, contact information, the name of Pearly's attorney, and a power of attorney document to be executed at the time of her death or disappearance.
Lastly, she reached under her desk and pulled out a .38 Special, two speedloaders, and a box of cartridges. Into the waterproof box they went.
“No, mom, I'm sure we'll be perfectly safe.”

–-----------------

Colonel John Hendrix sat on the floor in his quarters at round 0100 hours. He'd had a hard time getting to bed, so he was meditatively field-stripping and reassembling his service pistol. It usually helped him sleep. 
He had the pieces spread out on a greasy cloth draped over a large Turkish rug. Colonels got to have their own rugs, you see.
When he reassembled it, he had the gun sitting on a greasy cloth draped over a large Turkish rug.
Again and again and again.
Simple stuff, really. Great to clear out a man's mind.
He looked around the room. Some paintings, mostly by his nephews, on one wall. Old-timey nautical maps on a second. He walked over to a third wall, which had a computer and accompanying desk against it. Behind the desk hung a rug from Palestine, back before Lawrence, that had been handed down through the generations. Well-worn, but so well-made that it didn't quite show it.
It always made him think of his grandfather. Poor bastard “worked for the State Department”, that was all anybody knew. Lord knows how that rug got into the family. And now, it was on his wall.
There was a knock at the door, which was nested in the last wall.
“This is Hendrix,” he hollered politely.
There was another knock.
“What in the—” he said, before holstering the (presumably functional) pistol and approaching the door. “Who, may I say, is knocking?”
“Cap'n Peoples!” came the reply.
He opened the door. “You're not my captain,” he said.
“Not yet, anyway,” Kat Peoples replied. She let herself in and closed the door behind her. “Hey, I figured I'd give these to you first, they're the plans for our voyage. Wanna look them over with me?” She dropped a duffel and backpack on the floor and handed him a poster tube, glancing around the room. “Nice rug. Let's do this by your maps over there, huh?”
Hendrix blinked. Twice. “Might I inquire as to what you're doing here at 0100 hours?” he said.
“When? Oh, One AM. Right,” Peoples said as she opened the tube and spread some maps out on the floor. “Do you have a compass? Does that computer take flash drives?” She indicated the third wall with her head on the latter question. “An orienteering compass, not one of those fruity magnetic ones,” she added.
His hand briefly flinched towards his sidearm.
“Oh, please,” Kat said with a brief flick of the eyes. “Now can we get back to the maps?” She tossed the greasy cloth out of the way, carefully moved the Turkish rug, and spread out two more maps on the now-free wooden floor.
Colonel Hendrix rolled his eyes, fished a compass out of a drawer, and crouched down next to her.
“Great. OK. So, this here is the Pacific Ocean, you may have heard of it. The ultimate goal is this archipelago over here—” She stabbed her finger somewhere between New Guinea and the international dateline at a small highlighted area on the map. “But of course we can't make it there with just one payload. The official refuel is on Midway—imagine that, haha, good thing we have it—and there's plenty of opportunities along the way at minor little service stations, rigs, you know. Nothing mind-blowing though, mostly fuel and water. Now, from Midway—”
Colonel Hendrix cleared his throat. “I feel the need to point out that you haven't told me where this archipelago is or why we are going there,” he said measuredly, examining the great circle routes she was miming with the compass.
“Right right right. Konrad and Hildebrand think they found... I don't know, something? They want it investigated and the government agrees enough to give us a boat and some walking around money. Of course, I've got you lot to drag around with me to fill out the crew, I think they're going with 'expendable' here.” Kat sucked in some air through her teeth. “Ah, no offense, of course. Myself included.”
Hendrix studied the map for a few blessedly silent moments. “So,” he said, and paused to fiddle with the compass, “what's our timeline? This seems a bit odd. Why not just send somebody in from, I don't know, the Philippines or Japan or basically anywhere that isn't here? Or, just spitballing here, a helicopter?”
“They said something about 'needing all hands to help the poor people of Japan and the Philippines', I don't know. And it would take weeks to sweep the area by air, and we're not half the word away. A quarter maybe? I think they also want plausible deniability, you know, 'what, how the hell did that end up there?' in case we get caught? Although you have to be doing something wrong to get caught... Anyway apparently we're getting quite the loadout, so we should be pretty zippy. Some sort of retrofitted cutter? Oh, isn't this exciting?”
She clapped a little.
“So let me know what you think of those maps, uh, any other thoughts you might have, there's the minutiae of refueling and whatnot marked out on the higher zoom levels. Oh!” She jumped up and hopped over to the doorway, picking up the duffel bag and tossing it at Hendrix, who effortlessly caught it. “Here's your jumpsuit and stuff, you'll have to sew the nametag on yourself, budget cuts I guess, and there's a crew manual inside, I'll have a frame pack to you in a couple days, don't forget thermals and some nice boots, and, ah, Konrad said no smuggling, so, no contraband, 'contraband' is defined in Appendix A of the manual, ah—”
“A uniform?” Hendrix said.
“Well, you'll be a subordinate. Don't worry, you'll all be wearing them. What else, what else, I'll give you a ring if I think of anything else!”
Hendrix arched an eyebrow. “Are you high?”
“Gotta run bye!” Kat said, picking up her backpack and closing the door behind her.
Hendrix blinked again and went back to studying the maps. 9000Km give or take, depending on whether they slept or did shifts, let's say 20-40Km/h all else being equal, that's... what, a week or two locked in a tub taking orders from her. Assuming no proverbial (or literal) wrenches got thrown in the works, of course.
Not the end of the world. But why, oh, why him?

–----------

Colonel Hendrix gave up on the maps and decided to paw through the duffel. Jumpsuit, as promised, sort of a seafoam green... nametag, as promised... boat shoes, in his size no less, maybe the budget cuts weren't that bad... sewing kit for the nametag, maybe they were that bad... a fair number of highly questionable items, some of them just plain weird, and, here we are, the Razorfish Crew Manual. 
Page one:
The name of the game is “Find The Anomaly With The Boat.” The name of the boat is “Razorfish.” All the rest is commentary.
It continued in this vein. Hendrix could catch up with the broader strokes later. He decided to flip to the aforementioned Appendix A: Contraband.
Appendix A: Contraband
Section I: Weapons
The following are illegal in the state of California, and therefore this constitutes an exhaustive list of what is illegal in most other states, as well as many countries:
[A]ny cane gun or wallet gun, any undetectable firearm, any firearm which is not immediately recognizable as a firearm, any camouflaging firearm container, any ammunition which contains or consists of any flechette dart, any bullet containing or carrying an explosive agent, any ballistic knife, any multiburst trigger activator, any nunchaku, any short-barreled shotgun, any short-barreled rifle, any metal knuckles, any belt buckle knife, any leaded cane, any zip gun, any shuriken, any unconventional pistol, any lipstick case knife, any cane sword, any shobi-zue, any air gauge knife, any writing pen knife, any metal military practice handgrenade or metal replica handgrenade, or any instrument or weapon of the kind commonly known as a blackjack, slungshot, billy, sandclub, sap, or sandbag.
The Captain of the Razorfish recommends the following work-arounds:
Instead of a cane-gun, wallet-gun, or hidden/camouflaged firearm, consider carrying a licensed firearm.
Instead of flechette ammunition, consider a nailgun.
Instead of ballistic knives, shuriken, lipstick knives, or writing-pen knives, consider a well-balanced dive knife or three.
Instead of a shobi-zue, consider taping one of these knives to a stick. (All crew members will be supplied with a roll of duct tape and a complimentary stick.)
Instead of nunchaku, leaded canes, billyclubs, etc., all crew members will be supplied with a Kubotan and two days' training prior to disembarkation. 
Instead of a belt-buckle knife, consider using your belt buckle.
Instead of metal knuckles ('brass' knuckles), consider holding a roll of quarters in your closed fist. A roll of quarters will be supplied to all crew members. The $20 will be taken out of your gambling budget.
The California code previously banned carrying a shillelagh; the recommended work-around is to carry a shillelagh anyway, since nobody actually knows what it is and once you've started looking it up on Wikipedia it's usually too late.
If you absolutely must wander an urban area with a weapon, consider:
Wearing something looking like a baseball uniform and carrying a bat;
Wearing something looking like golf clothes and carrying a 9-iron;
A pillowcase full of doorknobs (please do not use the Razorfish pillowcases or doorknobs if it can be avoided);
A stick (many urban areas have e.g. oak trees);
etc.
If you absolutely must violate any of these rules, please don't tell me until two hundred nautical miles have passed. Also, remove these last two sentences after reading, thanks!
(Cross-reference Appendix B > Best Practices > C.2 > Improvised Weapons)

Hendrix was intrigued and flipped there.

Section C.2: Improvised Weapons
i. Bars
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: DO NOT GET INTO BARFIGHTS
BOTTLES: The easiest way to break yourself is trying to break a bottle. Remember to smash it UP against the surface, not DOWN. DOWN you FROWN, UP you... don't frown. LAST RESORT WEAPON VERY ILLEGAL.
POOL CUES: Just don't.
BARSTOOLS: Useful for fending off pool cues, or throwing.
COPS: Last resort weapon, technically legal but not in the fun way.

ii. Streets
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: DO NOT WANDER THE STREETS ALONE
STICKS: Always useful. Recommend something heavy and thick, or else bamboo.
BICYCLES: Surprisingly throwable.
KEYS: Grasp for extra punching power if you left your quarters behind, though if you have your keys you should have your...
KUBOTAN: If you're close enough just smack them in the windpipe/balls/various tendons, see training before attempting.
BOTTLES: See above.
BODY: Stay off the ground. Hear that sound while you're wrestling your assailant? That's his friend walking behind you with one of the above mentioned items.
SNEAKERS: Odds are after a week on the Razorfish you'll be in better shape to run than anybody you're likely to run into.

iii. Boats
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: The Razorfish is essentially a series of panic rooms. IN THE EVENT OF BOARDERS, SEAL PROGRESSIVE LAYERS AS NECESSARY. THEY CANNOT GET IN.
GUNS: Only fire guns AWAY FROM the boat. You know what happens when metal hits metal.
GUNS pt. 2: DO NOT FIRE GUNS ON THE RAZORFISH UNLESS YOU KNOW HOW TO SHOOT THE GUN.
GUNS pt. 3: Use of the mounted guns shall be reserved for whoever the Captain deems worthy.
GUNS pt. 4: Should there be no remaining worthy people or no remaining Captain, feel free to use the mounted guns, godspeed and good luck.
BOARDERS: Keep them off.
BOARDERS pt. 2: Better you on than you over. Better them over than them on.
BOARDERS pt. 3: Is the Razorfish worth your life? 
BOARDERS pt. 4: Liferaft in the stern.
CLOSE COMBAT: Balls & Bumrush, momma always said.
CLOSE COMBAT pt. 2: You know how the doors work, they're heavy, slamming them on fingers and guns and feet is a great way to break the right kind of things (will not break the doors).

Hendrix took a deep breath and closed the manual, for now. Where the hell did they find this woman.



–-----------

“Woof,” Bowser said.
Pearly took this under consideration.
“OK,” she said. “So when you say 'Woof', do you mean W—”
“Woof!” Bowser said.
“Is that with a capital—”
“Woof!” Bowser interrupted.
Pearly sighed. “OK,” she said. “Woof. Fine.” And then the phone rang.
K. Edwards popped up on the display screen. Pearly vaguely stared at the last name.
Somewhere, a dog barked.
Somewhere much closer, Bowser barked back.
“Hey Karen!” Pearly said, answering the phone with a bit too much enthusiasm.
“Hey Pearly!” Karen said back. “You left me a message, you never do that, is something wrong?”
“Well,” Pearly began. “Um,” she continued. “Well, I mean...” Pearly remembered the box she had already left at the office. “Did you perhaps get that box...?” she asked.
“Box?” Karen said.
“So anyway,” Pearly said, artfully dodging around the matter of the box, “wanna dogsit for a few weeks?” She paced around a bit. “Food, water, just that sort of thing. And the whole poop business. You can crash at my place if you want. But I'll—”
Pearly kept pacing while reading her manual from the Razorfish.
“Be gone for a bit. A few weeks, that seems like a safe bet,” she said. “Hi? Karen?”
There was a slight pause as Pearly sat down. 
“Yeah. Hi,” Karen said. “Okay, I guess.”


-------------





Appendix B
	Best Practices
		A.1: Social Interactions
I. Quarters
The Razorfish contains somewhat cramped berthing for 22 crew members, four guests, and three officers. Well I have good news and I have bad news, boys and girls: The good news is, there's only fourteen of you, zero guests, and three officers! The bad news is, there's only fourteen of you. (Cross-reference Section 1.A: Let Me Tell You About My Boat, Subsection B, Operation Protocols.)
What this means for you is:
There'll be some free bunks, so you each get an extra 50% loadout if you need it. (See Appendix A: Contraband.) 
The quarters will be less cramped, and the three 'sanitary compartments' (military's term, not mine) will go further. 
You will annoy each other less easily. 
Best practices:
Use headphones. Nobody wants to hear your shit.
Don't hang out in the berthing chamber if you don't have to. You all have jobs anyway, so your downtime will be limited—don't go and ruin somebody else's by being an ass if they're trying to nap.
LEARN HOW TO USE THE DAMN 'SANITARY COMPARTMENT' (heretofore referred to as 'the head') BEFORE YOU TRY. This is covered in Section 1.A and will also be addressed during your two-day training period. EVEN IF YOU KNOW HOW IT WORKS ON ANOTHER BOAT, YOU DON'T NECESSARILY KNOW HOW TO USE THE HEAD HERE!
Do not enter the CO/XO stateroom without permission.
Do NOT enter the EPO stateroom without permission.
Basic locks have been removed; watertight locks are only for emergencies, not napping.
Masturbate fast, for fuck's sake. You ever lived in a 17-bedroom, 3-bathroom apartment before?
Use headphones.
No 'fraternizing', with the obvious exception of Steve and Alan.
Have fun! Movie nights on Fridays in the pilothouse after sundown, feel free to pack some movies, they will be decided on by democratic vote pending CO and XO veto. 
But do your job.
Happy trails, kids!
*	*	*
Pearly shrugged and put down the manual. She grabbed the leash—she was going to miss that damn dog—and thought about what movies to bring as she started down the stairs and headed along 4th Street.
As she passed the wig shop, she paused.
Extra loadout space... Mysterious mission... Recruiter literally named 'Clandestine'... Budget by Gavriel, so fuck it...
“Be a good boy, Bowser,” she said, hitching his leash to a bike rack. “Pearly will be back in a few minutes.” She skritched him behind the ears, and he looked back with what she swore was a hint of sadness, and then she walked into the wig shop. The doorbell jangled, and a woman looked up from behind the counter.
“How can I help you?” she said, bored.
“What do you have in brunette?” Pearly said.
“You actually shopping?” the woman asked. “Nearing closing time and we don't need any lookie-loos.”
Pearly tossed her hair back and tied it lightly behind her head. “Oh, yeah, I'm shopping,” she said. “So what do you have in brunette?”
The woman looked her up and down, then stood up, went around the counter, and took a good look at the shape of her face.
“Right this way,” she said, loping down an aisle.



It was early afternoon and the Angels were playing the A's.
“How do you keep these teams' logos in order?” Hideki asked.
“Well,” Nuts slurred slightly, “you see, one of the 'A' letters is red, and the other is green. And, um,” he said, clearing his throat, “I don't know, champ. Perhaps Los Angeles is especially red. I took a glimpse of Oakland out the helicopter,” he chuckled, “and that place is definitely not green.”
Hideki looked to the ceiling and sipped his beer. “Seemed green to me.”
“Those were the hills, lad,” Nuts said. “Not that I've been here before, but we've both seen pictures of the stadium. Fairly brown around these parts, usually, if I'm not mistaken.”
Nuts and Hideki stared at the commercials for a bit.
In the corner, Hideki noted two red-headed men in various states of hat-wearing looking solemnly over a pile of electronics. They seemed to be having a half-hearted argument. The bartender looked over occasionally. 
Everybody else in The Connecticut Yankee seemed to be paying about as much attention to the commercials as Hideki was. Silently cursing their smart phones for poor service, making small talk with their neighbors, occasionally plugging quarters into the old jukebox, the bar seemed stuck in a sort of torpor. Even the camera crew near the corner, whatever that was for, had set their equipment down to stare at beers.
“So,” Hideki said to nobody in particular, “who do you think is going to—”
“Angels,” the bartender interrupted, polishing a glass.
“But are the A's not a better—” Hideki said.
“Yep,” the bartender said, moving onto the next glass. “But they don't want to be in Anaheim, now, do they? And it's gonna be away games for the next who the fuck knows how long for them.”
Hideki arched his eyebrows. “And not for the Angels?” he said.
The bartender hung up a few wine glasses and chuckled. “Well you saw about the shorelines. When was the last time you looked at a map of—ah, never mind,” he said. “What are you in town for, anyway?”
Nuts leaned forward. “We're on a top secr—”
“—top ramen evaluation tour for—” Hideki interrupted.
“...Zagat, I suppose,” Nuts finished, rolling his eyes and resuming focus on his beer.
The bartender's eyes widened.
Hideki gave Nuts a sideways glare. “We were not supposed to tell him that,” Hideki said. “Many apologies, sir,” he said with a slight bow to the bartender, and a quick, sharp elbow to Nuts' ribs. Nuts yelped.
Turning towards Nuts, Hideki said, “So is it safe to presume that Catherine has delivered your supplies as well?”
Nuts also turned, and chuckled. “I am super chuffed for that jumpsuit!”
Hideki raised an eyebrow. “Really? It reminds me too much of my old itamae. At least it did not come with a hat.”
“Your old what?”
“The sushi chef uniform?”
“Ah. Wait, you didn't get the hat?”
Hideki's eyes went wide. “Please, please tell me there is no hat.”
Nuts laughed. “No, there is no hat. But we should get hats! Just the two of us. Didn't you ever watch Jacques Cousteau?”
Hideki turned to sip his beer. In the corner, the film crew appeared to be awakening from their half-slumber. He turned back. “Jacques who?” he said.
Nuts laughed out loud, a good, solid belly laugh. The redheads in the corner looked over. “Oh, Hideki, have I got something to show you.”
The bartender leaned over. “'Scuse me, boys,” he said. They looked. “If you don't want to find yourselves on TV—if you do, I've got some waivers—you'll wanna finish those beers and head out soon. On the house.”
Nuts looked at Hideki. “Looks like we're going hat shopping,” he said.
Hideki sighed.

---------------

It was almost time.
Hideki sat on a tatami mat that he'd picked up from the Japantown mall, sharpening his knives. He'd also picked up some salt, a kōtsū-anzen omamori (for traveler's protection, of course), a small sakaki tree, a caligraphy kit, and that stupid goddamned hat, although he'd decided to add a bit of flair rather than match Nuts' plain blue one. All that was left was the knives.
He sharpened them, as he always did, methodically and calmly, to the rhythm of a song that only he could hear. Schick, schick...
All his bags were packed, he was almost ready to go. He was wearing the green jumpsuit, nametag MORI on the left breast, hat and sunglasses at the ready by the bedside. Two more knives to go.
He considered the supplies he had at hand. What was the old American expression? You go to war with the army you have, not the army you want? Something like that. Well...
...schick, schick, schick...
Well, that applied to a lot of situations in life, now didn't it. 
Hideki looked around the room as he sharpened; he'd done it so many times throughout his life that he didn't even need to use his eyes. Brickwork that belied a cinder block core, for the walls. The floor was the sort of thing you might find in a mechanic's garage. Three windows. Four bunks, none occupied; they had said that most of the Coast Guard was already out on duty. And no wonder. There were sailors drowning by the dozens, or about to. And it didn't matter where you were—the Coast Guard had a duty to Americans in the water, unless the Navy was convenient. At least, that's what they had told him.
Who was 'they', you might ask? Well, Captain Peoples, and agents Poissonshenski and Hildebrand, of course. And then whoever it was that ran this—was it a base? Whatever you might call this. The Coast Guard had, officially, been a little bit distant from the communications, but they were there if help was needed. For now, at least, or so they said.
At least Hideki had been able to get the saying that he liked painted onto the Razorfish. He had studied philosophy fairly extensively as a youth, and for whatever reason the saying had always resonated with him. Ipse se nihil scire id unum sciat: I know that I know nothing. Perhaps it agreed with his Buddhist upbringing. Perhaps he had low self esteem. Perhaps he was, in fact, an idiot.
...schick, schick, schick...
No matter. While pondering unanswerable questions was of course a favorite past-time, this was not a particularly auspicious occasion. There would be time to meditate while he was on the boat. Presumably. Not that a few days without careful introspection would drive him mad—though he'd certainly seen it happen to Americans more than once, particularly on this trip. Then again, everybody had gone a bit mad over the last couple of days, now hadn't they?
...schick, schick, schick... sching!
The knives were done. Hideki walked to his smaller bag, which he had purchased for the more fragile accessories and things he wanted to keep a closer eye on than, say, clothing. Besides, there was no sense putting, say, a tree inside the frame pack, after all.
He would use that soon enough, anyway. He hoped that Captain Peoples would acquiesce to strapping a tree into the pilot house, but anywhere with sun would suffice.
He went to the bathroom and washed his hands.
The knives and the mat went into the handbag, and he pulled on his silly hat and draped the omamori around his neck, tucking it into the jumpsuit. Using his Leatherman multi-tool—never be without a knife—he carefully clipped a branch off the tree. With the calligraphy kit, he dry-brushed a short prayer onto a piece of paper. He sprinkled salt on the bedside table and the door's threshold.
Kit, salt, and tree went into the bag.
He weighed the prayer down with loose change from his pocket, placed the branch on top of it all, and bowed in silence for a while. With a deep breath, he stood up, clapped twice, put on his backpack, grabbed his bag, and left. 
Well, as they say, you use the supplies you have at hand, now don't you?
As he made his way towards the Razorfish, there was a rustling in the bushes as a tiger emerged. It looked at Hideki. Hideki looked at it. The tiger sniffed and then loped off to where it had come from.
It appeared to Hideki that the makeshift shrine had worked.




What was it like to be a dog?
Was there anything that it was like to be a dog?
Bowser knew.




VALENTINE'S DAY SPECIAL
It was Valentine's Day.
“You guys have seriously never seen The Breakfast Club?” Nuts said.
Pretty much everybody in the galley shook their heads. Nuts sat down.
“I've got it on my laptop,” Nuts said, drinking a glass of soda. “We could put it on the screen there, somebody must have the cord,” he said, indicating the big television hanging from the wall. “Somebody?”
A man with the name 'Johnston' sewn on his jumpsuit raised his hand. “I think I've got the cable, what's in it for me?” he said.
The crew chuckled.
“Double rations!” somebody yelled.
“Shore leave, replace him with some Navy fuck from Midway!” somebody else yelled.
“What about just flying the team to—”
That was right after Captain Kat Peoples entered the room. “OK!” she yelled. “Are we done with this shit? It's movie night! What are we watching!”
The crew looked around nervously. Johnston seemed like he was trying to hide behind his chair. 
“The Breakfast Club, m'aam,” Nuts said.
Captain Peoples thought for a second. “Who's got it?” she asked.
And the rest, as they say, is commentary.

*	*	*

Kat had a flashback.
There is a place in Seattle.
Well, there are many places in Seattle. 
But in this one case, there is a specific place in Seattle.
Well, a few places in Seattle.
One of those places is called Pony.
Pony is a gay bar.
Catherine Peoples was at Pony.
She was drinking a can of Olympia.
She was also only seventeen years old, with a fake ID.
For whatever reason—possibly her age—she commanded attention from the older women.
She was wearing a Television shirt that she had stolen from her older sister.
Her older sister was away at Ann Arbor.
It was Karaoke night.
Karaoke means “empty orchestra,” which is a fun thing to know. The 'kara' is the same 'kara' that you'll find in 'karate', which means 'empty hand.'
So that's a fun thing to know.
Anyway, Catherine was sitting there on a stool, staring at the ceiling and the things hanging from the ceiling. The things hanging from the ceiling were giant cock-and-balls, made of paper mache. Some of them had pubes made of wires; some had pubes made of pipe cleaners. Everything was of a beautifully different color palette. In the grand scheme of things, it was something that Catherine had never really seen before, much like the gay erotica that lined the walls.
A woman in a shirt and jeans got up to the stage. Her forearms had a lot of tattoos. Catherine couldn't read them.
Koenntest du schwimmen
Wie Delphine, Delphine es tun
Catherine recognized a song she knew. Well, she recognized the tune. The lyrics, not so much. She also saw an opportunity for two things: dancing and karaoke. 
Und wir sind dann Helden
Fuer einen Tag
She sat and nursed her Olympia. The woman had inspired her to sing her own song. And more than that, she was going to speak to her when she was done.
Then she walked over to the Karaoke sign-up list and put her choice in, cut a rug for the rest of the song, and sat down by her can of Olympia. After a particularly bourgeois rendition of The Sweater Song, followed by a particularly annoyingly punk rendition of Like a Prayer, her name was called and she walked up to the microphone.
And then she sang Ask.
Shyness is nice, and
Shyness can stop you
From doing all the things in life
You'd like to

So, if there's something you'd like to try
If there's something you'd like to try
Ask me - I won't say "no" - how could I?

Coyness is nice, and
Coyness can stop you
From saying all the things in
Life you'd like to

Spending warm summer days indoors
Writing frightening verse--

And that was when the bouncer came and kicked her out of the bar.



“This has too many commas, Corny,” Nuts said as he sipped a Lagunitas whilst proofreading a blog entry by Cornelius on a laptop.
“What do you mean, too many commas?” Cornelius said, sipping his own exactly-the-same beer.
“Well,” Nuts said.
The venue was the back porch of one of Corny's friend's apartments. They'd strung up a tent, of sorts, on top of the porch. It was made mostly of used sheets and ornamental blankets, held up by a central pole and attached at every vertex to a smaller pole. From the middle there hung an incandescent light of surprising warmth. And of course every seam was adorned by various kinds of Christmas lights. It gave off a general sense of secular belonging.
Cornelius looked around and resigned himself to his own lack of ideas.
“It's just,” Cornelius said, grasping a bit, “Well, why do sodders like Radiohead get all the good press while I'm plenty good—”
Nuts almost choked on his beer. “Well you're,” he coughed, “you're plenty good, Corny, but you're not exactly recording Kid A over here.” He coughed again. “Come on.”
Cornelius blanched, and spit. “Well if you've got any bright ideas yourself, you're right welcome to share them,” he said, and stormed off into the apartment. 
Nuts looked down at his beer for a moment.
“Well,” he said, looking up, “Hey, what if you just pretend you're writing the uh,” and Nuts thought for a second. Then he stood up and walked over to the apartment door. “What if you just pretend you're writing something like Sweater Song?”
Cornelius came out of the apartment and thought for a moment. “Did somebody say Sweater Song? Well, I think they have a karaoke machine around here, and some Weezer couldn't hurt...”



Hideki, Hendrix, Nuts, and Pearly made their way up the gangplank. Captain Peoples went belowdecks to greet them and show them to the crew quarters.
“Gentlemen,” she said to the assembled. “Ma'am. Let me tell you about my boat.”
Kat pointed out the various racks in the stowage compartment. “So, let's see. You've all got your Kubotans, thanks for attending training by the way... Over here we just have some big sticks, surprisingly useful,” she said, pointing to a rack of big sticks. “You know. For whatever reason you might need one.”
Nuts raised his hand.
Kat laughed. “This isn't a school, Ensign Adams. What's up?”
Colonel Hendrix laughed hard enough that he had to bend over and put his hands on his knees. “So I'm an ensign now too?!”
Kat whipped her head around to look at him. “Ah, erm,” she said, clearing her throat. “Well...”
“Let's just say you were joking about Adams over here,” Hendrix said, inclining his head towards the still-confused Nuts. “Yes, Adams?”
Nuts cleared his throat. “Nuts, ma'am,” he said.
Kat flung her arms out in frustration and shook her head. “Fine,” she said. “Fine. We're all going to act like peers here. I get it. Just remember that I'm in charge when it comes down to it, okay?” She sighed.
Nuts raised his hand again.
“Yes... Nuts... Please proceed,” Kat said.
Nuts cleared his throat and shuffled his feet, hands in his pockets. “I was wondering why we might need some big sticks, but I'm sort of starting to get the idea, in that they're for hitting people with. So, no question any more, I suppose,” he said.
He stepped back a measure in order to, well, be a step back.
“Right, then,” Kat said. “On this wall you'll find a series of, ah, increasingly-calibered firearms in various states of automaticness.” She walked past a rack of weapons as Vanna White might do on Gunrack Of Fortune. 
Hendrix raised an eyebrow.
“Konrad and Hildebrand assure me that this is technically legal,” she added. “Moving on.”
Kat walked past an empty tiger cage (she'd put a blanket over it to avoid questions from Hendrix) to a section that was more or less filled with food-like objects. “This,” she said, pointing to the boxes, “is food. Ensign Mori—er, Hideki I guess—take notice! God, you guys are taking all the fun out of this whole 'Captain' thing. Biggest boat I've ever had and you won't even take subservient titles.” She threw up her arms in semi-mock protest. “Anyway, that's the food. Fuck if I know how to cook, so, alright then, Hideki. All yours. Onwards!” And with that, Captain Catherine Peoples walked up the stairs to the next deck.



“So,” Kat said, as she got to the crew chambers, “This used to be a Coast Guard Cutter, and, well, now it isn't.” She looked vaguely around.   
Nobody else did anything except silently pick out which bunks they would have, and which footlockers would fit their stuff the best. 
“Top bunk!” Nuts shouted as he hopped into a top bunk. “Bottom bunk too, I guess!” he said as nobody else moved.
“And the footlocker?” he said.
“Moving on,” Kat said, not even shifting on her feet. “These are the bathroo—well you all read the manual and/or know how boats work, right?” she said. “The head.” She gestured to a series of three doors. “Heads? I don't know, this is the first time I had a boat with them like this. Anyway, this is the head and we're calling it the head. And I'm the captain so fuck you. Anyway, here's how to flush it.”
And Kat opened one, and sat down on the seat. Her pants were on, mind you, but still.
“So once you're done,” she said, indicating the apparatus, “you'll want to—oh! Pearly! Uhm, ahh,” Kat said. “The whole... um...”
“Feminine stuff goes into the bucket over there,” Pearly suggested, pointing.
Kat squinted for a moment. “That's correct. You get extra rum credits or something, I seriously don't know how this works with amateurs.” Kat stood up from the toilet. Sorry, she stood up from the head. Rather she stood up from the toilet that was in the head.
(God, this is exhausting. --ed.)
At any rate, Kat stood up. She showed how to flush the whatever you want to call it that was in one of three whatever you want to call its.
Also with Pearly she dealt with you know all of that whole thing. Turns out you just put it in the same garbage bag as the rest of the stuff. But who knew?
Anyway, Kat stepped to the berms and the bunks.
“OK!” she shouted, with the undeniable sound of a Person In Charge. “We can do the rest soon enough,” and she put her hands on her hips, “but we've got five hours before we're cleared to leave. So who the hell is not ready for some karaoke?!” She gestured sweepingly at a karaoke machine that was against one of the walls.
Nobody was quite sure how to answer on account of the linguistic ambiguity of the statement.
Kat Peoples didn't care.
She walked to the machine.
She picked American Pie.
A bold choice for karaoke, let's be honest. And then she sang it, all eight minutes, without even looking at the lyrics on the screen. An odd talent, to be sure, but a talent nonetheless.
“Who's next!” she said, slightly out of breath. The silence was deafening. “As your captain, I order you to—”
Hendrix cleared his throat. “We're still in territorial waters. Hell, we're still moored. Don't go all 'Law Of The Sea' on us.”
Kat sighed. “You people ruin everything.”
“I'll sing something,” Pearly offered. “You know, get the ball rolling.”
“Great!” Kat reached behind the machine and grabbed a large spiral-bound book marked SONG LIST, which she threw at Pearly. “Catch!”
Pearly caught it, not deftly but not gracelessly either. She flipped through it. It was organized by band name. A, B, C...
Ca, Ce... Cr...
Cre... e... d...
(I know what you're thinking. Don't worry, there are more letters.)
She walked to the machine and fiddled with the keyboard for a moment. She grabbed the microphone and the music started.
I see a bad moon rising.
I see trouble on the way.
I see earthquakes and lightnin'.
I see bad times today.

Don't go around tonight, 
Well it's bound to take your life, 
There's a bad moon on the rise.

I hear hurricanes a blowing.
I know the end is coming soon.
I fear rivers over flowing.
I hear the voice of rage and ruin.

Well don't go around tonight, 
Well it's bound to take your life, 
There's a bad moon on the rise.

Hope you got your things together.
Hope you are quite prepared to die.
Looks like we're in for nasty weather.
One eye is taken for an eye.

Well don't go around tonight, 
Well it's bound to take your life, 
There's a bad moon on the rise.

Don't come around tonight, 
Well it's bound to take your life, 
There's a bad moon on the rise.
Nuts cleared his throat. “Ah,” he said, “well, that was certainly... A bit on the nose, don't you think?”
Pearly laughed and tossed the song list at him. “Your turn, then,” she said.
“Ah, bollocks,” Nuts said, flipping through the book at random. “Well,” he said, “on a lighter note, just pull up Fat Bottomed Girls, I suppose.”




“Now that was fun, wasn't it?” Kat said.
“Sir, yes sir!” Hendrix said with a mock salute.
Nuts screwed up an eyebrow and tried to assemble himself into some semblance of the 'attention' pose. Hendrix chuckled to himself.
“Guys, ugh, stop it!” Kat said with a whine.
“But I thought—” Nuts said, frozen in place halfway into his pose.
“Pay. No. Attention. To. The. COLONEL!” Kat said through gritted teeth.
Nuts was still frozen.
“Fine, uh... at ease? You all know this is not a military operation, right?” Kat said. Nuts relaxed again. “You know, ah...” Kat added, “you know... technically.” 
Pearly raised her hand.
“This isn't a classroom either,” Kat said. “Yes, Dr. Sweetcake?"
“So what is it?” Pearly said, skepticism apparent in her voice.
“Disavowable,” Kat said, looking directly at Pearly with a serious expression. Then she wheeled around to the rest of the group, clapped, and smiled brightly. “So who wants to go see the deck guns??”

*	*	*
They emerged to the main deck towards the stern and into the non-salty-but-still-wet, well, sort of salty, air. This was the San Francisco Bay, after all, which was (again, I don't know how many times I have to remind you people) an estuary, so there was still some salt in the spray. At any rate. It was a lovely day, the sun was shining, the paint was fresh, they had plans all laid out for Midway, and they were with as close to good friends as five people who met randomly at a cocktail party two weeks ago could possibly be. They were also with Captain Peoples, who was, all told, a fairly easy person to warm to.
“So,” Kat said, extending an arm towards a large cannon that pointed towards the prow, “Here we have the Bushmaster, which is used for punching large holes in things rapidly. Any questions?”
Everybody but Hendrix shuffled their feet awkwardly. 
“Well, I guess we know who'll be manning this one should the excrement hit the air conditioning, as Vonnegut once wrote,” Kat said. “Now if you'd all follow me up these stairs,” she said as she walked up a flight of stairs, “here we have a nice little 20mm cannon that I'm sure one of you babies can use.”
Nobody seemed to volunteer.
“Come on!” she said. “This little peashooter? Anybody? Pearly, you look like you could handle your own.”
Pearly shrugged.
“OK, you're on front 20mm duty. Hendrix, please teach her how... big guns... work? I assume it's comparable. Now, we've got another one of these on the stern, the rest of you follow me,” she said, and they walked the distance past the pilothouse, radar equipment, and semaphore poles, where they found the other 20mm cannon.
“I'll be busy steering this, so, um...” she said, considering the assembled. “Nuts, I guess. Have Hendrix show you the nuts and bolts of this thing before we pass the Golden Gate. That's the big orange bridge, in case you didn't know. Well, that's that for now, then.”
Kat cupped her hands around her mouth and hollered “HUMMUS BREAK IN FIFTEEN! MEET IN THE GALLEY!” Turning to Hideki, she said, “Mori, you come with me.” Together, Hideki and Kat went belowdecks to begin food preparation.



Gavriel Vartanian sat at the main desk in his main office on the main BankBuddy floor in the TransAmerica Pyramid, his Mephisto loafers loafing on the green-leather-topped surface, a month-old newspaper opened before him, a Meerschaum pipe clenched between his teeth, and a sweating glass of Oban cooled with chilled granite at the corner.
“You know, Cheryl,” he said, turning the page and chuckling through his teeth, “life sure was simpler before this whole fiasco, wasn't it?”
At the far side of the desk, approximately ten lamps away, Cheryl typed away on a laptop. “To be honest, Gav,” she said, the perfect acoustics of the room making speaking above a conversational tone completely pointless, “the last two weeks haven't been all too complicated either.”
“Fair enough, fair enough,” Gavriel said as he set down the pipe to sip his whisky. He sighed and pointed at an article in the paper with his glass. “Now, see,” he said, “the news used to be entertaining. Look at this one: Swordfish Fatally Stabs Man After Man Stabs, Fatally, Swordfish. Somebody got a degree to write headlines like that, Cheryl.” He sipped again and put the glass back down, replacing the pipe. “A degree, Cheryl! Imagine. What's everybody even studying nowadays anyway? Political science? Anthropology?”
Cheryl lightly slid her laptop aside. “I studied anthro, you know,” she said.
Gavriel folded the newspaper neatly and placed it onto the table. “Well, sure,” he said, removing the pipe from his mouth again, “but you went to Austin. You could've studied underwater basket weaving and I would've hired you.”
“Thanks, I... think,” Cheryl said, bringing the laptop back in front of her face and resuming sorting the day's emails.
Gavriel looked solemnly down into the intricate serpentine carvings on his pipe. “Say, how are the applications for the Vartanian Fellowships coming along lately?” he said.
“Well, sir,” Cheryl said without looking up, “it would appear that today's youth have decided that staying in college is a better investment than dropping out to pursue what is, let me be frank, a rather dubious grant process, especially given the debt levels they've already accrued.”
Gavriel cursed under his breath. “Look, just because half the world is flooding or starving—”
“The half that isn't on fire,” Cheryl added.
Gavriel spun his chair in a circle, laughing. “—doesn't mean they should be considering sunk costs! I mean, talk about a fucking logical fallacy. Doesn't anybody take econ anymore? For fuck's sake.” He took a generous helping of whisky.
“Well, the sunk cost fallacy, as you call it, has undergone some withering criticism lately,” Cheryl said, “especially when it comes to binary achievements like having, or not having, a college degree.” She resumed typing.
“Somebody's full of piss and vinegar today,” Gavriel said.
“Sorry Gav,” Cheryl said, “it's just that clearing up what happened at the stadium is, pardon my French, still a fucking logistical nightmare. And a diplomatic one. And I'm fairly certain at least two people died, and some of the fish may have been less fresh than advertised, so there's a bit of a class action suit going on... Legal's handling all of this, of course, but as far as I can tell, ah... well. You'll get your executive summary by sundown, of course. Now if you don't mind, I need to finish compiling it.” And once again she resumed typing.
Gavriel turned to look out of the floor-to-ceiling windows that lined the far wall. The sun was just dipping below the pylons of the Golden Gate. His cell phone rang. He picked it up. “Vartanian here, talk to me,” he said. “Mm-hmm. Okay. And they're all on board? What about the... ah, Konrad noticed it? That's too bad. Well, send my condolences to Putin, and find the damn thing before... well of course it's still on the island, there's no fucking bridge traffic! A tiger can't just commandeer—well of course I know that. I'm fully aware they don't have opposable... oh, jam a whore in it, you little shit.” He aggressively pushed the little red button that ended the call and cleared his throat.
Cheryl looked up with a creased forehead.
“That was just, ah, fuck, never mind,” Gavriel said, inspecting the bowl of the pipe. “Anyway, the Razorfish will be departing 'round about the time that your executive summary will be done.” He put the pipe back in his mouth, stood up, and began to pace nervously.
“You ever going to actually light that thing?” Cheryl said.
Gavriel shrugged. “Nah, I just think it looks cool. Well I do plan to use it some day, Cheryl. If I'm really fucking stressed, like forehead-vein-bulging stressed.”
“You were that stressed this morning after your first thermos of coffee,” Cheryl said.
“OK, fine, like, aneurysm forehead-vein-bulging stressed. Do you have any idea how much this thing cost? I'm not going to ruin it with smoke.”
“The price we pay for beauty,” Cheryl said, resuming her work.
“Indeed,” Gavriel said, miming puffing thoughtfully through his empty pipe.



In the hold, two young men with jumpsuits marked HEWETT and PINNELLI were organizing supply crates as the other crew members brought them up the gangplank. 
GARBANZO BEANS went in the corner nearest the stairs to the galley, because of course they did. CAT FOOD went into the far opposite corner. 7.62x39, 144 ea. they carried past the cloth-draped tiger cage and placed next to 9x19mm, 144 ea., 11.43x23mm ACP, 144 ea., and 5.56x45mm, 144 ea..
“Alan,” Hewett said with a flat affect, “I don't suppose you think she's finally snapped this time,” as he hefted a box of GROUND TURKEY, FOR INSTITUTIONAL USE ONLY towards the garbanzo beans and into the nearby freezer.
“Please, Steve. She always brings this much,” Pinnelli said, casually using his foot to nudge SPICED RUM, 1 gal. 12 ea. across the deck towards cases of Gatorade and sacks of instant coffee. He paused after he finished, looking to the gangplank at the crates that had most recently arrived on a dolly. “Does lime juice go with the food or the beverages?”
“One with the beverages, one with the food,” Alan said, and carried one of the lime crates to the food.
Steve moved the other next to the rum. “Is it just me, or is she packing like we're going to be gone for a lot longer than the—oh, for crying out loud,” he said as another crate arrived. “Would you look at that.”
Alan turned and stared. “Is that—”
“—an entire crate of tahini?” Steve said. “Why yes, Alan, that is an entire crate of tahini.” He sighed, walked over, and placed the tahini next to the growing pile of garbanzo bean crates. 
Two hundred pounds of flour had arrived in the meantime, and Alan carried one of the fifty-pounders up to the galley while Steve used the dolly to move the rest to the food corner. 
In the distance, Steve could hear Captain Peoples yell something. Please, oh please, he thought, don't let that be what it sounded li—
“HUMMUS BREAK!” Alan repeated from the galley. “Fifteen minutes!”
Steve let his upper eyelids droop slightly.
“There ya go, Hewett,” another crew member said, dropping off a dolly-full of smaller boxes all taped together. “Spices or some shit, I don't know, that's your department, mister I-can-pronounce-majorama,” he said as he turned and walked away.
“It's 'marjoram' and you know it,” Steve said. “Hummus break, by the way,” he hollered. “In fifteen.”
The crew member, still walking away, put his hands to the sides of his mouth. “HUMMUS BREAK! FIFTEEN MINUTES!”
It was going to be a long couple of weeks... although, judging by the supplies so far, perhaps a long, well, longer.
Steve hefted the stack of boxes and began carrying it up to the galley.

*	*	*

“So that's it, then?” Pearly said, peering through a series of concentric circles aligned down the... barrel? Of the... cannon... she was... seated at?
Hendrix had not explained the nomenclature.
“I just point this at the thing I don't want to be there any more...” she said.
“Mm-hmm,” Hendrix nodded.
“...and then I push this button...” she said.
“And the one on the side, too,” Hendrix said, pointing.
“...and then it sprays out a bunch of bullets...”
“So far, so good,” Hendrix said.
“...and I stop before it overheats, and you'll teach me how to reload it some other time,” she finished, taking her hands off the handles and unstrapping herself from the... back-part-thingie. “Also whatever the hell we call all of these parts.”
Hendrix chuckled. “Sure, I'll draw you a diagram some time. Now if you'll excuse me—you good?” Pearly nodded. “Great. I'm going to head astern here and make sure that Limey idiot doesn't blow his own nuts off on accident. See you belowdecks in...” Hendrix checked his watch. “Ten.” He nodded and walked smartly towards the back of the boat.
Pearly pulled out her cell phone and called Karen.
“Pearly!” came Karen's voice through the phone. “Just a second!” Pearly could hear the phone being put into a pocket and the sound of water splashing; damn it, Jeff...!, and then something about an octopus, and then another phone ringing, Marine Intelligence Research Center, this is Karen, mm-hmm, OK ma'am, please hold for a moment, DAMN IT, JEFF!; a loud clunk, a grunting sound, a louder splash, and something heavy being placed somewhere quickly; Jeff, that's VICE on line three... well I don't know, just don't give another fucking scientist answer, OK? No more of this 'well we can't conclusively rule out Martians' bullshit, OK? No, I know you never said that, but you get the goddamned idea, well go into the other room while I get this tank sealed and I'll see you for dinner! OK! Thank you!
“Pearly!” Karen said again, clearer this time. “God, you've even got me talking like you now. How did you used to run this place?”
For the first time that day, Pearly felt glad to be away from the Center. “What happened to those famous manners?” she said.
“No amount of good parenting can prepare you for this,” Karen said. “And Jeff... Oh, Jeff. Why did it have to be the whale biologist who left and the computational neurolinguist who stayed?”
“You want Jeff on a boat?” Pearly said.
“Fair point. Annnnnyway,” Karen said, audibly tapping on a glass tank and giggling, “I still don't see how you managed to run this place. Well, not run run, but—”
“I had excellent help,” Pearly said. “But this actually sounds like business as usual. Everything still alive? I guess you haven't strangled Jeff yet. Congratulations. And remember: one day at a time.”
“Do I get to strangle Jeff on the Sabbath then or something?” Karen said.
“Let's just... not strangle Jeff, for now, OK? Even if he does start talking about black holes again.” Pearly took a deep breath of the salty-ish air and walked to the prow to take in the view of the big shipping cranes in the Port of Oakland. They reminded her of something from some movie or other, but she just couldn't place it. “Oh, has Jeff said anything about the dolphins lately? I haven't had time to peruse his newest report,” she said.
“I heard some mutterings about them saying new things? Like, having new... conversations. Well, you know how they have names, right? Ah, fuck, Pearly, just read Jeff's report and set up an appointment if you have questions. Gavriel might be able to help on the programming end if you have questions about his code, which Jeff assures me you will,” Karen said.
“Well bless his heart,” Pearly said.
“There you go with the manners again,” Karen said.
“Good parenting.” Pearly checked her watch. “I think I need to go eat some hummus now, Karen. I'll talk to you soon. Hang in there, OK?”

*	*	*



“Alright,” Captain Peoples said. She stood at one of the stainless steel tables in the ship's kitchen. “So.” She looked around the galley and waved toward a series of crates strapped against the wall. “Go ahead and fish out one of those big things of chick peas.”
Standing at the other side of the table, Hideki looked over at the crates and calmly said, “chick peas?”
Kat shrugged. “Uh, garbanzo beans, whatever,” she said.
“Why are there two names for the same bean?” Hideki said.
“Don't ask me, man, I didn't do it. Don't you guys have like seventeen words for rice or something?” Kat said.
“No,” Hideki said.
Kat sighed. “Anyway, I think people didn't like saying 'garbanzo', or 'bean' for that matter. Didn't play well in Peoria, you know? So the ad wizards came up with 'chick peas',” she said.
“...what is a 'Peoria'? Or an 'ad wizard'?” Hideki said.
“Just grab the can,” Kat said with a squint. “Make that two!” She walked to the far end of the table, and Hideki returned with two large cans of garbanzo beans. “OK, so, you—” she said.
Hideki slid the first can over to the industrial can opener. He slammed the opener down into the can and casually turned its handle until the lid hung on by a centimeter or so, and repeated the process with the second can.
“Right,” Kat said. “You open the cans.” She walked over to a sliding cabinet and opened it. “Here's where we keep the big metal bowls,” she said, pointing to a pile of big metal bowls. “We don't actually have any non-metal bowls. Boats, you know? They move around and stuff.”
Hideki nodded. “Indeed.”
“So, the next thing is, we take—” Kat said.
Hideki picked out two medium-sized bowls and, upon consideration, a third, smaller bowl, and carried them, along with the cans, to the food processor, which was bolted to a countertop that stuck out from the wall.
“Whoa!” Kat said, running over and throwing herself over the top of the food processor. “Cool your jets, hot shot!”
Hideki stepped back and put the bowls and cans on the counter. “Cool my...?” he said.
“Just stop doing things!” Kat said, and then she took a deep breath and let it out, extracting herself gingerly from the processor. “There's a little more to it than that. So go ahead and drain those cans, but save some of the juice, or whatever it is that's in the can, brine? I don't know.”
Hideki did, using the small bowl to hold the juice. “Where do the empty cans go?” he said.
“Just toss them in the trash,” Kat said, pointing to a bin in the corner.
Hideki blanched. “There is no recycling?” he said.
Kat laughed a little. “Y'know, it wasn't even illegal to toss this shit into the ocean a few years ago,” she said. “Sad, isn't it? Anyway, we use compactors and incinerators.”
Hideki still looked a bit put off.
“Look, I know you guys have your seventeen kinds of garbage over there,” she began.
“What is it with you and the number seventeen? And we have fifteen kinds of garbage,” Hideki said.
“Fifteen,” Kat said. “Fine. Well, here we have 'it burns' and 'it doesn't'. So go ahead and put the cans in 'it doesn't' over there. That's the one on the right.” She pulled out a smartphone and started typing. “New... to-do... make... signs... for... trash... cans,” she said while Hideki placed the empty cans in the trash, and then Kat put her phone away. “OK, so that's that then. Next up, we...”
The door from the hold swung open and Alan Pinnelli came in with a fifty-pound sack of flour. “Where to?” he asked.
Kat rolled her eyes. “Just once during this little tutorial I'd like to get through a step without being interrupted,” she said. “Anyway, all that baking crap goes, uh, in that pantry over there.” She walked to a sliding door and opened it, revealing a small room half-filled with dry goods. “Yeah, on the bottom here, that's right. Cool. Great job.” She smacked Alan's ass as he walked past. He whooped and skittered by playfully.
Hideki raised a quizzical eyebrow.
“Law of the sea,” Kat said with a grin. “He doesn't mind, do you, Pinnelli?”
“As long as we still get one of the officer's quarters,” Alan said with a wave, headed back to the hold.
Steve Hewett came through the door next with his box of spices and whatnot. “Spices and whatnot, Captain,” he said.
“Pantry,” Kat said, tilting her head toward the dry goods storage. Steve set them in the appropriate compartment.
“So...” Hideki said, sounding lost, “you hit Mr. Pinnelli, but not Mr....”
“The world is a strange and wonderful place, Mr. Mori,” Kat said, “but if it would make you feel any better, I can give Steve here a good—”
Hideki held up a hand. “No thank you,” he said.
Steve began walking back to the hold, and Kat darted around the room suddenly, looking in various crates and bins. “Tahini!” she said. As Steve headed down the stairs, the last part of him to vanish was his right arm held aloft, topped with a thumbs-up.



Kat and Hideki stood by a medium stainless steel bowl.
“So you take the olive oil,” Kat said, holding up a glass bottle of olive oil, “this one here, not the stuff in the big plastic thing we keep in the back.” She looked admiringly at the bottle and then ran the open top under her nose, inhaling deeply. “This is the good stuff.”
Hideki nodded, scribbling on a page in a notebook. “So after the mixing is done, we add the olive oil...” he said half to himself.
“The good stuff.” Kat nodded.
Hideki paused. “The... good... stuff,” he said, continuing to scribble.
“In the glass bottle.”
Hideki did not roll his eyes. “In... the... glass... bottle,” he added.
“Great,” Kat said. “And you drizzle that on top like so.” She drizzled it in a so-like fashion, then spun and wandered into the pantry, put the oil away, pulled out a pocket knife, and went to work opening the container of boxes of bottles of spices that Steve had brought up.
Hideki surveyed the galley. Everything was more or less familiar, which was unsurprising for exactly four reasons.
First and foremost was the fact that Mr. Mori had been in it almost every day for the preceding two weeks, during which time he had naturally learned its layout.
Second, he had had a memorable evening pushing the galley to its culinary limits while listening to a Giants game with Nuts, and as a result knew the kitchen as only one who has used every instrument in a kitchen can know it. In the end, Hideki had learned exactly which types of Japanese cuisine are cookable in the galley of a Coast Guard... erm, non-Coast Guard cutter; Nuts had eaten the food and found it passable; Nuts had also drank too much Jameson; Hideki had stuck to beer. The consensus, insofar as two people's opinions can be said to form one, was that the food got better as the evening wore on, but was also acceptable while sober.
Third, the kitchen consisted of the same instruments made by the same handful of companies that every industrial kitchen consisted of; they were merely arranged in a slightly different order.
Fourth and finally, Hideki had cleaned the galley until it glittered just the day before, which, had he to guess, was a task not performed for quite some time—two years or so, going by the build-up of gunk in the spaces where the steel table tops met the steel table legs. The kitchen was, in fact, mostly made of steel. I was not joking when I said it gleamed.
Hideki looked around and found some of the gleam gone. He had tried to clean as he and Kat prepared the hummus, but had missed a few spots. He hiked up the sleeves on his jumpsuit, revealing a large Sailor Mars-themed sleeve of tattoos on his right arm, picked up a terrycloth rag and a spray bottle, and went about scrubbing the spots he'd missed in an untroubled manner.
Kat burst from the pantry with a few spices in her hands. “Alright!” she said, fairly sliding across the floor and right next to the bowl. Hideki put down the cleaning supplies, walked to meet her, and picked his notepad and pen back up. “So now we top it with salt, pepper, paprika, and chives,” she said, adding the spices.
Hideki scribbled. “Garnish... with...”
“Top it, not garnish it!” Kat said. “This is to eat, not to look at.” She resumed the process.
“Season... with... paprika...” he murmured.
Kat paused. “Season, I like that,” she said. “Let's go with 'season.'”
“Thank you, Captain Peoples,” Hideki said, “...salt... pepper... and chives.” He capped the pen and put it down on the table along with the notebook. “And we are done, I presume,” he said.
Kat looked up for a beat. “Yep, pretty much. I mean, we need crackers or whatever. I think I had Steve get us pita chips, I'll head down to the hold in a sec and make sure they're bringing those up. You should come with, we need a couple more ingredients. Oh, and I need to show you how to make the most important dish you'll make.” She stood proudly with her fists on her hips and smiled. “The grog!”
Hideki raised an eyebrow. “What is... a grog?” he said.
Kat chuckled. “Oh, Mr. Mori, the places you'll go,” she said.



Clandestine Hildebrand sat on a stool at an unfinished wooden table under some sort of faux-Mayan brushed steel sculpture, alone in the Chipotle save for the workers and the customer or two in the mid-afternoon crowd. With the restrooms to her left and the soda machine obscuring her view of the front windows to the right, she was in an optimal position to remain unperturbed with her burrito bowl, while still having a good view of the restaurant, in case...
...in case anything should go wrong? In the Chipotle? Well, you can never be too careful, she told herself. Who knows what trouble might blow in from...
A man walking seven dogs at once strolled by on Fourth Street, talking on his cell phone. On the opposite side, an Arrowhead water delivery truck crawled along the storefronts, dropping five-gallon jugs off here and there. Like most of the other important streets, Fourth Street was covered with a tapestry of metal planking and fresh road sealant patching up the damage done by overflowing storm drains, burst water mains, and years of deferred maintenance. (Say what you will about disasters—they're great excuses for mowing through a bureaucratic backlog.)
...might blow in from Fourth Street. Clandestine rolled her eyes and checked her watch. She sipped her soda.
Years of the day-to-day grind at the Department of Fish and Wildlife (they'd decided to keep the name, for now) had made her accustomed to, well, a day-to-day grind of paperwork, phone calls, car rides, flights, field work, paperwork, interminable meetings with the deputy director, and a general sense of the inevitable, almost audible machinations of the bureaucracy, as it slowly but surely advanced the interests of the federal government in relation to unexplained phenomena about wildlife and, up until recently, fish. There was also paperwork. But this recent excitement had taken her far away from that old life for the last two weeks. Well, not that far. But there had been a lot more investigating-dark-sewer-tunnels-with-flashlights-and-guns (OK, the guns weren't drawn or anything) and a lot less of the whole phone-calls-and-meetings thing, neither of which, oddly enough, had impacted the level of paperwork.
Somewhere inside the soda machine, a stray ice cube melted, drip-drip-drip. Clandestine took a big bite of her burrito bowl. Her phone rang. It said Konrad Poissonshenski. She answered it. “Mmrnrmmdph,” she said.
“Why hello, Clandestine Hildebrand,” came Konrad's voice from the other end. “With a mouth full of...” He breathed deeply through his nose. “a chicken burrito bowl from Chipotle, with that corn salsa thing and extra avocado. You just had to get the avocado, didn't you, Clancy? While you're in California?” He chuckled deeply. “And now you're going to wash it down with one of those Diet Coke's you're always drinking. You know that stuff is just as bad for you as sugar, right?”
Clandestine washed the mouthful down with some of one of those Diet Coke's she's always drinking. “The research on that is murky and you know it,” she growled. 
“You say potato, I say giant coverup by the aspartame-industrial complex,” Konrad said. “Anywho, there's a situation. Do you have time to talk?”
Clandestine checked her watch. “Sure. I've got my four o'clock, so unless it's going to have me running through the water treatment plant after a giant lamprey or something, I'm good. Nice stalker-serial-killer impression, by the way,” she said.
“Thanks. I minored in acting, you know,” he said.
“I believe this is the first time you've mentioned that,” she said, mushing the rice around in her bowl with a plastic fork.
“How is Mrs. Hildebrand, by the way?” he said.
“She prefers to go by Ms. Hildebrand, you know,” she said.
“Oh, is she dating again? Good for her,” he said.
“No, at least that I know of, but she is living in the 21st century,” she said.
“Touche, Agent Hildebrand,” he said.
“So,” Clandestine said, rapidly taking another bite and swallowing with more Diet Coke, “what's this call about, then? Surely you aren't just checking in on my mother.”
Konrad paused. “Right, right right right,” he said. “Yeah, there's a tiger.”
“What do you mean, 'there's a tiger'?” Clandestine said.
“Well, you know, there wasn't a tiger on Yerba Buena, and now there is a tiger on Yerba Buena,” he said. “You know, the endangered kind.”
“They're all endangered,” she said.
“Well, there you go. So we need to catch it. The authorities around here have a nasty habit of shooting big cats,” he said.
Clandestine swallowed another bite. “I think I read about that, now that you mention it,” she said. “Is this even our jurisdiction, though?”
“Well,” Konrad said, “a few points there. First, guess where the cat came from?”
“Oh, Lord,” Clandestine said. “I thought we told her no smuggling.”
“You know how Kat can get,” Konrad said.
Clandestine paused. “...let's call her Captain Peoples for the purposes of this conversation,” she said.
“Good idea,” Konrad said. “So, since we're running a clandestine operation here with, you know, a Captain Peoples type person, we can't exactly go around calling animal control. Also, animal control would shoot the cat.”
“Jesus, Konrad, did somebody hit you with a wrong-choice-of-words stick this morning?” Clandestine said.
“Says the woman who just came up with 'wrong-choice-of-words stick',” Konrad said.
“Anyway,” Clandestine said.
“Right. Tiger, secret operation, Captain Peoples. It might not be our jurisdiction, but it's certainly our responsibility,” Konrad said.
“Well, shit, Konrad, I don't know, call the zoo? Or maybe Vartanian needs another for his, whatchacallit, menagerie,” Clandestine said. “How about I call you back after my four o'clock? I'm sure you can handle it.”
“What are you even doing over there, anyway?” Konrad said.
“Well. Paperwork. Also, the Metreon owner reported something about a bunch of big snakes crawling out during a showing of The Vacant Eye,” she said.
“'In This Sleep of Death... Dreams Come.' You know, I've been meaning to see that, wanna catch one after this whole tiger thing blows over?” Konrad said. “I'll bet the owner will comp us.”
“You know, I'll ask him. I'm sure it's just a bunch of Burmese pythons escaped from the municipal composting facility that got larger than life eating, I don't know, mutant rats or something, except the local diocese blames Satan, or whatever,” she said.
“Or as we call it, Wednesday,” Konrad said dully.
“Did you ever worry that this job might get repetitive?” Clandestine said.
“Before this whole fish thing? Totally,” Konrad said.
Clandestine finished her burrito bowl and soda. “Well, I'll give you a ring after all that, OK? Good luck with our little mess on the island. You probably get to stalk a tiger through the forest with a tranquilizer rifle or something. You get all the fun cases.”
“Enjoy rummaging through a dark, dusty back room with poor visibility full of upended film reels, with nothing but a flashlight, the owner waiting nervously in the doorway, the ground littered with coils of film... suddenly one moves! It wasn't film after all!”
Clandestine faked a yelp. “Oh no!” she laughed. “Alright, take care, I'll call you later, Konrad.”
“Bye now,” Konrad said.
Clandestine hung up.

*	*	*

Konrad was sitting in one of the helicopters on the phone with the zoo . “Hey there, Manager Gordon,” he said, “you guys missing a tiger? ...I see. You want one?”



The entire remaining naval strength of the Northwest Allied force is mustered for a supreme battle to defend their southernmost stronghold. A loss here would finally split them from their brothers in Los Angeles and beyond to the Baja. The San Francisco Bay must hold if the Pacific States of America are to survive. The Imperial fleet can be heard maneuvering somewhere beyond the fog, engaging in skirmish after skirmish following pot-shots from the wounded Allied fleet. The defenders have scored a handful of victories, but it is not enough to stop the Japanese momentum.
Otherwise, all is still, save for the usual sounds of a city preparing for war—the trucks and trains, the buzzing of airplanes and the hum of factories, the constant movements of ships in the bay. 
The military's cranes, specialized to handle the government's new standardized shipping containers, bristle across the Port of Oakland, resembling nothing if not the stalwart form of the American Pit Bull Terrier. A series of pylons dot the water between the tip of the San Francisco peninsula and the island of Yerba Buena, and from there to the shores of Oakland. Some day a mighty bridge will cross these waters, but for now the project has been put on hold as the country diverts its resources, public and private, to the defense of its Western flank—the Eastern coast already thrown into turmoil as factional conflict and suspicion of immigrants from the recently-fallen United Kingdom threaten to tear it apart.
The silence is shattered as the mighty cannons at Baker Beach and Fort Point fire into the fog. The Imperial navy is approaching, but the Allied forces have a tool the Japanese could only dream of—a new method of locating far away objects using radio waves. For decades, scientists from Germany to Japan, Italy to the Royal Air Force and onwards to the shores of the Americas, have been working on this technology, but only the Allies have finally mastered it.
This is its first major test.
In the distance—explosions! The shells have hit home! And on the decks of the USS Razorfish, floating quietly just off Yerba Buena, a small celebration goes up into the air! But there is no tinkling of glasses, and soon the oppressive shroud of war falls once again onto the crew.
In the pilot house stands Captain Charles 'Kit' Peoples, scanning the bay through a pair of binoculars. He turns Eastwards and walks to the far window when he hears a buzzing begin to rise over the other sounds of war. A wave of fighters and dive-bombers—Mustangs and Lightnings—just above the scattered clouds over Concord! The forces from Travis Air Force base have joined the fight. With a dawning realization, Captain Peoples crosses the pilot house again to look West, where the buzzing of the P-38s and P-51s is joined by another force.
Two groups of Zeros break through the fog and enter the bay! They head straight for the Golden Gate Bridge, and the Northwest fleet holds its collective breath. But the fighters fly low over the bridge, and the Allies fill the air in front of them with flak, taking down several aircraft. And so the battle is entered.
The Razorfish roars into action to join the fight, and Harbour Defence Operator 2nd Class James F.X. 'Nuts' Adams brings his autocannon around and targets two of the Zeros before they can bear down on the Yerba Buena defenses.
Pew pew pew! Pew pew!
“Nuts!” calls out Commander Hendrix, running down the deck toward the rear battery. “NUTS!”
“Hey!” Colonel Hendrix snapped his fingers in front of Nuts' eyes. “Nuts! Snap out of it!”
Nuts was seated at the stern cannon of the Razorfish. He shook his head. “Yes sir!” he said. “Comman—er, Colonel Hen—er, John. Right then. You were saying?”
“Actually, I think that's the long and short of it,” Hendrix said. He shrugged. “I was just making sure neither of you did anything stupid while I was getting the lay of the land. So, you think you got the basics then? I mean, not like you'll be using them, let's be honest.” He patted one of the barrels. “Pretty tempting though, isn't it? Anywho, see you in the galley in a few, unless you had any questions.”
“I'm good, thanks,” Nuts said. Hendrix wandered off.
Nuts looked around at the view he'd seen hundreds of times in the last couple of weeks. Lovely, clear weather for a voyage. The sun was just hitting that point that the photographers call the 'magic hour', and Oakland was illuminated in a sweet golden light that managed to scour off the years of neglect and rust, the sun reflecting back from the towers downtown and the waterfront condos to light up the Bay Bridge from both sides. He took out his phone to take some pictures, click click click. A series of text messages vibrated the phone and interrupted his last couple of pictures, and he dismissed them while he finished his task.
The messages were from his family. All good, the eelhouse was on mothballs; the insurance markets were still frozen but they'd recoup the cost of the lost boat come hell or, well, high water; Kate says hi; she and Other James were minding their corner of the island and coordinating supplies for the other residents; the Finches were helping support the family for now, since the goddamned Tories were so stingy with relief funds; and so forth. Nuts typed out a response. All well, hugs and kisses to mum and dad, sock Other James on the shoulder for me when you get a chance, will send money from my new job when available, go ahead and don't text for a while, will cost a lot on my plan, but have email access. Cheers! He attached the best of the pictures, then fired off an awkward note with a selfie to Kate.
Hideki came up onto the deck wearing one of those Japanese forehead sweatband-scarf things with the red circle on it. Nuts blinked a few times and shook his head. Right, we're not actually at war, he reminded himself.
“The hummus is ready!” Hideki called out.
Yay, Nuts thought. Hummus.
“And,” Hideki said, consulting his notes,” 'grog'!”
Well, that certainly made things more appetizing.




“Well, I'm off to the dojo,” Gavriel said, finishing his scotch.
Cheryl raised a quizzical eyebrow.
“What?” he said. “This is how they practice in, uh... Scotland.”
“Golf, maybe,” Cheryl said as Gavriel wandered off and through a door that had been built into the paneling.
Some day, Cheryl thought, when I'm rich... She checked the balance in the Swiss account that BankBuddy had set her up with. -er. When I'm richer, I'm going to have an office with a wall like that. And a library in my house with one of those big old-timey globes. And a fake bookshelf like one of those doors. Well, it'll be a real bookshelf. Probably the Shakespeare section will be on it. It'll open to... well, a panic room is too pedestrian...
She closed her laptop, arranged the papers she'd been using into a manageable pile, put both into a soft leather briefcase, and turned off all the lamps on the long meeting desk. As she walked to the public exit for Gavriel's office, sensors in the room determined that she was a) Cheryl, b) alone, and c) leaving, and the lights blinked off along with her as she went. She chuckled and remembered the conversations she'd had with the small army of electricians, programmers, interior decorators, set designers, and other types from Los Angeles more generally. Bond villain meets boardroom with the table in that scene from 'Network' and automatic window shades like that scene from 'Blade Runner', she'd said, reading from a list. And Gavriel specified forest green carpet. And, you know, the sort of room where you get the impression that the real villain lair, the one with all the steel and gray chairs, is behind a hidden panel in the wall somewhere.
Cheryl looked at the wall panel Gavriel had left through while she entered a code on the security panel. He had a private anteroom back there, as she recalled, but maybe that led somewhere other than a personal elevator and personal restroom. The secret door in my library will lead to a personal apartment, with an elevator leading to a gym in the basement and one of those wizard tower roof spire things they have around here on top. And people will always wonder how they get to the wizard tower. And they'll never know. Also the apartment will have a restroom.
She left Gavriel's office, locked the manual deadbolts, and pulled out her cell phone. “Hey Robbie, it's Cheryl. Yeah, make it a double latte this time. And could you be a dear and check to see if there are any good buildings for sale around here? Maybe a nice Victorian in Noe Valley, that sort of place.” She thought about her construction plans. “And go ahead and include anything that might have had a couple holes knocked in it recently. I'll be fiddling with the innards anyway, might as well do it under the guise of a repair permit. Oh, and look into repair permits. Give Thaddeus down at central planning a ring, would you? Thanks. No, it's not urgent, but it is time-sensitive. Go ahead and put it on your tier 2 list. Great. See you in a few!” She ended with a lilt.

*	*	*

Cheryl blew on her double latte, seated at the two-monitor desk in her office, the windows in front of her overlooking the piers—ordinarily a lovely view, recently not so much. They hadn't even cleared off the worst of the mud from much of the waterfront, and more than a few boats were still strewn about the Marina district, like toys dropped by a distracted child.
A set of speakers on one side of her keyboard played Bruce Springsteen.
“Buona sera, signore Nicchi,” she said, a bluetooth earpiece fastened to one side. “How are you doing today? My computer tells me the weather is lovely over there.” She blew on her latte again. “Oh, fantastic. Yes, I'm just wrapping things up for the afternoon, well, I will be when I'm done with our call.” She smiled. People can always tell when you're smiling, even over the phone. “Always nice to hear your voice. How is little Beppe?”
She continued with the small talk while she prepared for the next call on her list. Mobile Naval Museum Commemorative. She pulled up the favors-versus-debts balance sheet she kept for Gavriel and scrolled down to the 'M' section, then cross-referenced with 'Alabama', 'Navy', and a few other sub-headers, then scrawled down a few notes and pulled up the same favors/debts-style balance sheet for the BankBuddy empire as a whole. It was simply a matter of—
“Well, it must be getting late over there, though, signore Nicchi—you must be getting sleepy. I just needed a couple of quotes from you for the Conde Nast piece we're placing next month. Why don't you just tell me a little bit about your restaurant...” she continued, eying an article she had up on the second screen. Rare Porto Nicolo Large-Pincered Crab to be Removed From Protected Species List, a proof ready for submission to the nature publications. “Very good, sir...” she said, “mm-hmm... well, just in general, anything that you think people might want to know about your restaurant, and Porto Nicolo in general. You know, places to see... delicacies... yes, you'll probably be very popular with the tourists in August. Maybe make your villa into a little bed and breakfast for the newlyweds, hmm?”
She continued to type down a transcript of the conversation. “Well have a wonderful night, and say hello to your wife for me. Always a pleasure. Bye now.” She hung up, took down some notes, and pressed a few buttons on the phone.
“Robbie, hi. Is this a good time? Just a quick question. ...great. Do we still have all those macaroons that Gavriel tried to give to the president of Cameroon? ...Yeah, the reaction was priceless! 'We are frankly quite sick of that joke.' Well... now don't get all high and mighty again, Robbie. We need a border town with the Congo. ...Because we do, Robbie. You never know when a junta or whatever will come in handy. …..Now don't get snippy with me, I have enough stress as it is. Look, we do have the macaroons, right? Thank you. And uh, great work on the first whack at that real estate thing. Gold star. Thanks a million. Buh-bye.” She clicked the call off and queued up the next item on her list, dialing a long number into the phone.
“Hallo, Lydia! Wie geht's?”



Pearly ended her call and put her phone back into her pocket, unfocused her eyes for a bit, and took in the Bay.
A bank of fog was blasting over the coastal range at Twin Peaks. It had already swallowed the bottom half of Sutro Tower, giving the impression of a stenopus hispidus—that's one of those red-and-white striped shrimp, for the non-scientists—hidden just below the cloud cover. It crouched over the city, cleaning the detritus and parasites off the landscape, its tail stuck in the air to catch the attention of passing fish, and... well, the metaphor sort of fell apart with the fish thing, for a few reasons, but mostly because there weren't any fish that big. Or, you know, the other big issue involving fish at the moment. 
The poor shrimp would be lonely, too. S. hispidus is, unlike most of the residents of San Francisco, monogamous, and there was only one in sight. Perhaps some day they would build another pointless radio tower and finally give it a companion.
Pearly shrugged. Maybe she'd just been around the Bay Area too long, but she got the impression that monogamy was for shrimp, anyway. Lord knew that apes were bad enough at it, and, contrary to popular opinion, well, don't even get her started about whales or dolphins. Especially dolphins. Horny little fucks. Some birds did it, but that wasn't the best example either—where did mankind get the word cuckold from if not the perfidious cuckoo, after all?
It wasn't much of a big deal one way or the other, anyway; monogamy was nothing more than a theory in one's head, when one had been involuntarily, er, non-gamous for as long as Pearly had.
Well, she thought, good luck, little giant imaginary shrimp, and she took a deep breath. Pearly imagined the cold air whipping the fog down into Cole Valley and the Castro as the afternoon dragged on to evening. She shuddered a bit and thought about the jacket she had brought. She'd need to unpack her duffel, decide where to keep her books... she was pretty sure there would be spot for the waterproof boxes near her bunk, in case she needed to access, you know, anything about maritime law... or her lawyer's information... or the handgun... you know, the usual concerns for a whale biologist.
Pearly caught that train of thought just before it derailed completely and remembered that she'd actually had her coat with her when she boarded, and that it was laying right next to the duffel. So, alright, she thought, fog coming, cold comes with fog, coat is for cold, coat is on bunk. Cool.
Onwards.
Pearly turned around and Hideki's head popped up from belowdecks, followed, she observed, by the rest of Hideki. He held a notepad up in front of his face, shielding his eyes from the sun. “The hummus is ready!” he said. “And,” he added, squinting at the notepad, “grog!”
Hideki smiled sheepishly and turned around, going back to the galley. Pearly headed on a trajectory that would lead her down the same path, and bumped into Nuts at the hatch. He was reading his phone. He fumbled and almost dropped it.
“Oops!” Pearly said, talking a step back.
“No, no problem, all's good, what?” Nuts said.
“I, um, sorry,” Pearly said. “I ran into you. 'Oops'.”
Nuts punched something into his phone. “Yes, erm, right then,” he said.
“Did you hit your head or something?” Pearly said.
“No, it's just, well, sorry. Just had something on my mind.”
Pearly nodded. “Hey, well, lots to think about. Here we are, about to head off on a voyage to find a mysterious island, or something...”
“Hey,” Nuts said, “you're a scientist, right? Can I pick your brain for a minute?”
“Sure,” Pearly said.
“So,” Nuts said, and started down the steps, “we're sort of a motley crew, right...”
*	*	*
“You're basically asking me,” Pearly said, entering the galley, “if I've seen the end of Lost.”
“More or less,” Nuts said, following her in, “though for our purposes, through season four will really be enough.”
“Because we're a motley crew of—who says that, anyway?” Pearly said.
“Me, evidently,” Nuts said with an eye roll. “You're a scientist, make some observations and come to some conclusions.”
“Somebody's cranky. Does little Nutsy need some grog?” Pearly said.
“Well, there's no need to be rude about it,” Nuts said. “Also, yes,” he added, approaching the table that the others already milled around, Kat and Hideki standing at the head.
Pearly followed along. “And we're looking for an island, on a boat...” she said. “Which time, anyway?”
“Spoilers...” Nuts said.
“I'm not going to finish it, don't worry,” Pearly said.
“Well, there was the other boat crew, right,” Nuts said, “and—”
“Wait wait,” Pearly said. “Back there in the stairwell, I thought you had called it—did you mean the boat crewed by 'The Others', or the crew of the other boat?”
“I—so there's the one with the scientist,” Nuts said, “and the blonde lady, and they're looking for the island—”
“Which, um—” Pearly said.
“I'm not done,” Nuts said, grabbing a fistful of pita chips from a bowl and putting hummus on one. “Mmph,” he said, looking faintly astonished that he had a mouthful of food. He swallowed. “Terribly sorry, one's hand just has a mind of its own when you're dealing with such good hummus.”
Kat flashed him a wry look and slid a mug of grog his way.
“So,” Nuts said, “the scientist, and the blonde lady, and the Asian guy who talks to spirits or whatever—”
Hideki slapped his palm onto the steel table. “I practice Shinto, Nuts,” he said, sighing. “I am not a spirit medium! And your theory is stupid! Stop bothering Pearly.”
“Wasn't the Asian guy on the submarine, anyway?” Pearly said.
“No, you're thinking of—”
“Atten-SHUN!” Kat said. Everybody froze. “Ha! That actually worked! Anyway, shut up about Lost and eat the hummus and drink the grog. Good, huh? Let's all thank Mr. Mori for a lovely snack before we send ourselves off, shall we? Cheers!” She made a half-assed salute with a hand holding a mug and turned back to talk to Hideki.
Steve Hewett and Alan Pinnelli sidled up quietly. “Grog O'Clock, Captain!” Steve barked with a salute.
Kat startled and spun around. “Jesus, Hewett,” she said. “OK, um,” she continued, grabbing mugs marked with their initials and handing them over. “Grog for Steve, virgin grog for Alan.”
Alan snickered when she said 'virgin'.
“Yeah, that one never gets old,” Kat said. “Run along now, you two.” Steve, Alan, and Kat clinked glasses and the two men left for another steel table.
“Alan could not be that young,” Hideki said. “Especially if, ah,” he cleared his throat.
“Oh, he just doesn't partake. Not at sea, that's his rule. ...not since last time,” Kat said darkly.
Hideki's eyes widened and he sipped his grog. “What happened last time?”
Kat laughed. “Nothing. Just fucking with you. He's designated driver or whatever. Nice kid.”
She gave a meaningful look to Hendrix, who stood by one wall, playing with his phone. He met her eyes and nodded.
Suddenly, the doors all slammed shut and locked.
“Oh no!” Kat wailed. “What the fuck! Are we stuck here?”
Hendrix tried to open the door next to him, to no avail. “Seems so, Captain!” he yelled. He ran across the galley to a wall panel, which he opened with a code. A computer console sat behind it. Kat ran over to join him.
“We... are...” Kat said, typing furiously at the console as the lights in the room turned red, “...definitely stuck here,” she continued. She pulled out her cell phone and shook her head. “Does anybody have reception?” she said.
“Oh my god,” Nuts said. “This... are you fucking kidding me?” The mug of grog fell from his hand and clanked on the ground, scattering beer, rum, and lime juice across the galley floor.
A siren began going off.
“I was just joking about Lost! I don't want to die here! This is just like the end of season two! When they...”
He looked around the room. Half the crew was stifling a laugh, another quarter was smug, and the remaining quarter was both.
“This is just like season two. You assholes.”
Kat typed a few commands into the console. The siren stopped, the lights returned to normal, and the doors unlocked. “You wouldn't shut up about it,” she said. “All fucking week. And hey, good news, the fire doors work!”
Nuts walked over for a grog refill and drank down half the mug. “Fuck off,” he snorted. “I can't believe I fell for that. This is just like the beginning of season three.”
“Anticlimactic?” Hendrix said.
“At least one of you sods remembers the damned show,” Nuts muttered. “You're all fucking insane.”
“Oh,” Kat said, taking in the whole crew with a sweep of her head, “the fun we are going to have on this voyage.” She raised her glass.





“Why are we leaving at night and sailing into the sunset, anyway?”
Kat lit a cigarette. “Dramatic effect.”
Part 2: Meanwhile... 1

Robert DuBrow. He's habitually five minutes early and Cheryl hates it.

A long long time ago
I can still remember
How the finance system used to work

And I knew if I had my chance
I could make those hedge funds dance
And maybe I'd be happy, but a jerk

But September made me shiver
With all the pink slips I'd deliver
Bad news to the poor fuck
I couldn't give not one more fuck

I can't remember if I cried
When I read about his widowed bride
Nothing touched me deep inside
The day the proletariat died
So

Bye, bye miss American Pie
Drove my Chevy to Detroit but it couldn't get fixed
And the good 'ol boys were drinking lead and shit and singing
This'll be the day that I die
This'll be the day that I die

Did you write the book of love
And do you have faith in god above
If the bible tells you so?
Do you believe in normal governance?
Can process save your self from seriously fuck that shit?
And can you teach me to dance like somebody who doesn't care about it?

Well, I know you're in hate with him
Cuz I saw you dancing near the gym (you're fat)
You kicked off your shoes
Ever actually heard rhythm and blues?

I was a lonely Boomer broncin' buck
With a pink carnation and a pickup truck
But I knew I was out of luck
The day
Scalia
Died
I started singing

Bye, bye miss American Pie
Drove my Chevy to Detroit but it couldn't get fixed
And the good 'ol boys were drinking lead and shit and singing
This'll be the day that I die
This'll be the day that I die

Now for 30 years we've been on our own
Like shit accumulates on a stone
But that's not how it used to be

When the Jester sang for Babs and George
In a coat I borrowed from (if there's anybody who can rhyme George with George it's St. Scalia) George
And a voice that mostly came from Sandra Day O'Conner (it doesn't have to rhyme, I'm Scalia's ghost)

And while the electorate was voting for Nader
The Court was looking a little later
The courtroom was adjourned
And Bush v. Gore was returned

And we sang dirges in the dark
The day the election died
We were singing

Nothing

Because organize and canvass and phone bank and I don't care who you vote for just fucking vote.






NOTES
There are gonna be bad days. There are gonna be days that really, really suck. There are gonna be days where you want to punch the floor until your hand breaks. There are gonna be days where you do.

They have to leave the Razorfish a ways offshore in Hawaii since they, you know, stole it
Everything Counts in Large Amounts
“If you stay in a barber shop long enough, you're going to get a haircut.”
virgin grog
Cornelius eats cat food
FEAR: False Evidence Appearing Real, Fuck Everything and Run/Retreat
“Will you start building some bridges and get over them?”
“You can't save your face and your ass at the same time.”
24 hours a day, seven days a week, if there were eight days it'd be eight...
“I'm not saying that what you're doing is extreme, but... it is extreme. Just a little bit. A lot.”
“I guess I don't know, I... I don't really... care? Does that make sense?”
“It was getting so bad, I couldn't even do cocaine with my friends any more because they were so annoying.”
Treat your mind like a bad neighborhood—don't go alone.
Linux lets you do stupid things...
A problem is anything that creates problems.
Social stigmata
Remember those wizard globe ball thingies?
“Most etymologies exist at the intersection of interesting and irrelevant.”
He had a peculiar way of storing things... manila folders with the sides stapled shut...
insult: “umbilical stump”

CAPTAIN CATHERINE 'KAT' PEOPLES
Sigourney Weaver in Alien, with shorter hair, possibly also holding a cat (baby tiger, for plot reasons, if possible, there's actually lots of material out there of Weaver with a cat)? Aviators (black) and a limp-but-active cigarette in her lips.
Cat is not necessary.
AGENT CLANDESTINE HILDEBRAND, DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND WILDLIFE
Scully, but actually just young Scully. Also a neck tattoo under her ear that she can but fails to cover with her hair. And the tattoo is of the Black Flag logo.
AGENT KONRAD POISSONSHENSKI, DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND WILDLIFE
Mulder, but blond, ish. Young Mulder. Scotch-Irish in the less-attractive way, rosacea(sp?) or freckles or a ruddy skin complection which is a weird balance between a man who blushes too much and a boy who finds himself with blood constantly coursing through his veins.
PEARLY SWEETCAKE, WHALE BIOLOGIST
Melissa Joan Hart but also 35. Ponytail, left ear with three piercings (two cartilaginous). 
If relevant, carries a revolver
CHERYL, SECRETARY TO GAVRIEL VARTANIAN AT BANKBUDDY
Tough-talking, hard-farting, sack of ugly muscle, pantsuit enthusiast, and good at getting shit done. 
Paula from Crazy Ex Girlfriend?
Hillary Clinton?
Non-corrupt Chris Christie?
HIDEKI, SUSHI CHEF
Japanese dude with short hair
Right half-sleeve tattoo of various Shinto stuff, including Sailor Mars if necessary/also it is necessary
COLONEL HENDRIX, U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
Young Colin Powell
But also not a war criminal
And also a slightly disfiguring scar on the upper left eyebrow
JAMES F.X. “NUTS” ADAMS, FORMER EEL FISHERMAN
Even more clueless Martin Freeman
Dresses poorly
Is an alcoholic fisherman from an island in London
Now just an alcoholic
CORNELIUS FINCH, ANNOYING TRUST-FUND BABY MUSICIAN
Friend of Nuts
Gay alcoholic
Probably looks like Russell Brand (whom he may or may not have had sex with)


http://www.theregister.co.uk/2015/06/02/hawaiian_swordfish_death_battle/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Island-class_patrol_boat


Thomas Bedfellow, Realtor (Cornelius meets him in Hawaii)
Brigadier General Esteban Consensus II

“Isn't your face literally covered in blood?”
“Oh, that's just how it works around here. NEXT!”

“Tack port, mind the boom!” Captain Kat Peoples yelled at Nuts as he furiously cranked the winches to make the sail do just that.
Nuts ducked as the boom damn near caught him in the head, the sail flipping from starboard to port.
That's why they call it the boom, after all.
“Remind me,” Nuts said, panting, “why we're out here in the sailboat at all?”
Kat stood silent for a moment and lit a cigarette. She walked to the prow.
“Well,” she said, “Pearly wanted us to gather some data, and the Razorfish is loud enough to spook the dolphins. So you're here because you know how to crank a winch, and I'm here because I'm your captain, and I said so. And the two of us are here because this sidescatter sonar will get what Pearly wants. Any other questions?”
The boat beat silently against the current as the night went from mostly black to completely black.
“Well—” Nuts said.
Kat took a drag off her cigarette. “Do you know why they call it 'starboard', Nuts?” she said.
“No ma'am, I don't,” Nuts said, finding his way along the gunwales towards Kat in the starlight.
“It used to be short for 'steer-board'. They used to have the rudder on the right side, before some smart-ass decided to put it in the middle,” Kat said, gazing off into the distance.
“Interesting?” Nuts said, catching his breath and sitting down at her ankles.
“Do you know why I made you tack in this direction?” Kat said, still staring off the prow.
“No ma'am, I don't,” Nuts said. “But would you mind if I had a cigarette? It's New Years, after all.”
Kat nodded briefly and handed him the pack. The lighter was inside. Covering his hands against the wind with his jacket, Nuts pulled out a Camel and lit it.
It had been a while. He coughed.
“So why?” Nuts said, handing the pack back.
“I just wanted to see if I could see the fireworks. Anywhere, really.” She paused and took a puff. “Haven't seen the family in a while. We used to watch them together every year.”
Nuts took another drag, smoother this time. “Can't right say I've seen mine recently either,” he said.
They sailed on. Distant booms could be heard, but the miles of sea spray kept either of them from seeing anything.
“Do you miss them?” Nuts said.
Kat seemed to consider. “Not really. Buncha fucks with kids and two-story houses.”
Nuts nodded, briefly. “Well, I gotta say, I don't have much living—”
“TACK STARBOARD!” Kat hollered.




“i hope you boys like hummus.”
maybe i'll make "a little too on the nose?" a running gag for obvious references?
Maybe have one character like Nuts keep pointing it out
after like the third Kat/Han Solo reference he'll say "a little too on the nose? anybody? am i the only person here who's seen star wars?"
so they watch star wars
kat can be like “nope, still don't see the similarity, buddy”
“am I the only one who sees this? It's--”
everybody else: “completely on the nose! We get it!”

Nuts is going to be so useless in a fight omg

Kat totally needs to paraphrase "Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid." to Hideki

short's the best position they is

Marty Fish, tennis player
Barracuda Tiki Bar “Bring the fish back”
“You seem better.”
“Well, I'm high...”

Character: Travis Cook, the chef
Donald Trump is so absurd he's proof that god does not exist
Band name: Pink Zebra
“Did you say 'you too', or... 'Mewtwo'?”
2.5 acres
Bar phone picked up “St. Francis hospital, you kill 'em we chill 'em, how can I help you?” ….”Yes, this is the Tavern.”
The shark from Jaws has better favorability than every presidential candidate
Hakarl
Let Me Tell You About My Boat
They watch Star Wars on the boat
Desperados Waiting for a Train
USCGC Razorfish, Sentinel-class coast guard cutter
http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/55/Proposed_modification_to_the_Damen_Stan_patrol_vessel_for_the_USCG.jpg
About 2300 miles to Hawaii, that's five days
SF → Midway was the plan, have to change course and restock in Hawaii because Cornelius is stowing away
From there to Midway, then...
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oroluk_Island
 
la coryphene
“Why do they call you 'Nuts', anyway?”
“Well, I went to Catholic school, and there were four other James Francis Xavier's in my class. So we all had to have nicknames. My mother believed that protein was the most important component in any meal, so she always sent me off with a bag of almonds, and, well...”
“You are what you eat?”
“I suppose so. It's a better name than James, you have to admit.”
“Let's go with 'a more memorable name'.”
Ernesto Vargas
“ipse se nihil scire id unum sciat”--I know that I know nothing (Socrates)

“Better do what she says. She's a whale biologist.”

Oh, I am heartily tired of hearing about what Lee is going to do. Some of you always seem to think he is suddenly going to turn a double somersault, and land in our rear and on both of our flanks at the same time. Go back to your command, and try to think what we are going to do ourselves, instead of what Lee is going to do.
As quoted in "Campaigning with Grant" (December 1896), by General Horace Porter, The Century Magazine.
"Everybody has a plan until they get punched in the mouth."
In advance of the former heavyweight champion's appearance Saturday night at the Seminole Coconut Creek Casino, where he will perform his one-man stage show, "Mike Tyson: Undisputed Truth," I asked Tyson if he remembered the origins of that quote.
"People were asking me [before a fight], 'What’s going to happen?,' " Tyson said. "They were talking about his style. 'He's going to give you a lot of lateral movement. He's going to move, he's going to  dance. He's going to do this, do that.' I said, "Everybody has a plan until they get hit. Then, like a rat, they stop in fear and freeze.' "


UK people don't understand homelessness ('tramps') or poop
“Even monkeys can fall from trees.”
33133676
“kill your face off”
“jam a bastard in it you crap”
Bartender David
http://www.lordandtaylor.com/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/en/lord-and-taylor/brands/wa-cocktail/rhinestone-accented-shift-dress-0230-af14p70880--1

"i suppose it doesn't matter anymore, no more than if brontasauruses exist or pluto is a planet..."
“I care deeply about those,” said some fellow in an ill-fitting suit that just screamed 'scientist'. He drunkenly swung a fist at Pearly.
Pearly caught his wrist and wrenched him effortlessly to the floor, foot resting on his neck. “As I was saying,” she continued; few interrupted her again that night.

Gavriel Vartanian
BankBuddy
A Flock of Cocks: a gay Flock of Seagulls cover band
Quote from When The Man Comes Around
Quote You Never Even Call Me By My Name
1 [Stolen shamelessly and without permission from Vonnegut, Kurt. Hocus Pocus. New York: Putnam, 1990. Trade paperback.].

EPILOGUE

Gavriel Vartanian was an acclaimed fisherman. Not avid, not adept—acclaimed. He sat near dusk by the banks of Lake Verna—a remote alpine lake in the Colorado Rockies about a day's hike from the nearest parking—frying fresh brook trout on a skillet over the firepit.
“Worth it, Gav?” Pearly said, setting up a series of tents nearby.
“If this isn't fucking delicious I'll eat my hat,” Gavriel said. “Could you hand me my hat, Cheryl?”
“I am going to finish this goddamned beer before I am doing anything else,” Cheryl said from behind a copse of pine trees. “Jesus fuck, Gavriel, you've even got me talking like you now.”
Gavriel flipped the trout over in the skillet. “There are worse people to emulate, you know.”
The bushes rustled. “Like who?”
Gavriel took a sip of his own beer. “Non-billionaires, to start with.”
A grunting could be heard as Cheryl pushed her way through the brush to the shore. “You're not wrong, Gavriel, you're just an asshole.”
“Assholes get shit done.” Gavriel chuckled. “Where are those Brits? I was promised music.”
Pearly rolled her eyes. “I don't know, Gavriel, I didn't bring my satellite phone, and—”
“Oh, no worries. My watch is one of those now,” Gavriel said.
“Why don't I have one of those?” Cheryl said.
“Oh, they only made one. It's a prototype. Let's see if we can find a connection all the way up here!” Gavriel said. He tossed the watch at Cheryl. “Fish is ready, by the way. Well—my fish. A plate, Cheryl?”
“Stuff it up your ass, Gavriel,” Cheryl said as she handed him a plate.
“I'm doubling your bonus this year,” said Gavriel, putting the fish on the plate and handing it back.
“Whoopty fucking doo.” Cheryl stopped to think for a moment. “Oh, um, I think I meant thank you, that's a not inconsiderable amount of money, you pompous ass.”
“That's more like it. Bon appetit. It's your fish now, I'll just get the next one.”
“Get a room,” Pearly grunted as she snapped a second tent together.
A helicopter appeared over the mountain ridge.
“Get them on the horn, would you, Cheryl?” he said.
Cheryl chatted on the watch for a bit. “They're going to do the drop on the other shore!” she shouted over the din. 
Gavriel shrugged. “'k.”
“Tastes delicious, by the way,” Cheryl added.
“Can't hear you!” Gavriel and Pearly shouted.

–-------------





Meet you by the river
When it reaches full tide
Where the fish jump and the willows sway so high
'Cuz if I'm standing there
When the river's running bare
I'll shoot the coop and leave you far behind

…
Whisper too discretely all the things you've never said
Pack your toothbrush and your following bags
'Cuz it's a long way to the city
And it sure would be a pity
If you lost your rucksack and we had to send you back

Oh, 'long the river, deep and wide,
Moonlit summer nights,
Seen your own reflection shining clear.
Hope the bird of Christmas flies 'round here.

Meet you by the river
When it reaches full tide
Where the fish jump and the willows sway so high
'Cuz if I'm standing there
When the river's running bare
I'll shoot the coop and leave you far behind

